.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" Copyright 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996, 1999, 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996 Fujitsu Limited
.\" Copyright 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.
.\" Copyright 1996 X Consortium, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.TH XpCancelJob 3Xp __xorgversion__ "XPRINT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XpCancelJob \-  Cancels a single print job.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
      cc [ flag... ] file... -lXp [ library... ]	
.br
      #include <X11/extensions/Print.h>
.LP      
.B void XpCancelJob
(
.I display,
.I discard
)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Bool \fIdiscard\fP\^;

.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies a pointer to the Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay.
.TP
.I discard
When TRUE, specifies that all XPPrintNotify events should be discarded.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
XpCancelJob cancels an in-progress job. If the job was started with output_mode 
XPGetData then the data stream to XpGetDocumentData is terminated. For many 
page description languages such arbitrary termination may invalidate the 
output.

If the job was started with output_mode XPSpool then depending on the driver 
and spooler configuration the entire job may be canceled or a partial job may 
be generated.

If 
.I discard 
is TRUE, all XPPrintNotify events with a detail field of 
XPEndPageNotify, XPEndDocNotify, or XPEndJobNotify are discarded before 
XpCancelJob returns.

For clients selecting XPPrintMask (see XpSelectInput), the event XPPrintNotify 
will be generated with its detail field set to XPEndJobNotify.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM XPBadContext
A valid print context-id has not been set prior to making this call.
.TP 15
.SM XPBadSequence
The function was not called in the proper order with respect to the other X 
Print Service Extension calls (for example, XpEndJob prior to XpStartJob).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XpEndJob (3Xp),
.BR XpGetDocumentData (3Xp),
.BR XpSelectInput (3Xp),
.BR XpStartJob (3Xp)

