.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" Copyright 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996, 1999, 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996 Fujitsu Limited
.\" Copyright 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.
.\" Copyright 1996 X Consortium, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.TH XpGetPdmStartParams 3Xp __xorgversion__ "XPRINT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XpGetPdmStartParams \-  Builds up parameters in accordance with the PDM 
Selection Protocol as a standard convenience function.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
      cc [ flag... ] file... -lXp [ library... ]	
.br
      #include <X11/extensions/Print.h>
.LP    
.B Status XpGetPdmStartParams
(
.I print_display
.I print_window
.I print_context
.I video_display
.I video_window
.I selection_display_return
.I selection_return
.I type_return
.I format_return
.I data_return
.I nelements_return
)
.br
      Display *\fIprint_display\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIprint_window\fP\^;
.br
      XPContext \fIprint_context\fP\^;
.br
      Display *\fIvideo_display\fP\^;                  
.br
      Window \fIvideo_window\fP\^;      
.br
      Display **\fIselection_display_return\fP\^;      
.br
      Atom *\fIselection_return\fP\^;      
.br
      Atom *\fItype_return\fP\^;      
.br
      int *\fIformat_return\fP\^;      
.br
      unsigned char **\fIdata_return\fP\^;      
.br
      int *\fInelements_return\fP\^;      
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I print_display
Specifies a pointer to the print Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay 
on the X Print Server.
.TP
.I print_window
Specifies a client window on any screen of print_display long-lived enough for 
ICCCM communications of the final PDM status ("OK" or "CANCEL" ClientMessage) 
sent to print_window.
.TP
.I print_context
An existing print context that the PDM should reference.
.TP
.I video_display
Specifies a pointer to the video Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay 
on the Video X-Server.
.TP
.I video_window
Specifies the window on video_display near which the transient dialogs from the 
PDM should be posted.
.TP
.I selection_display_return
Returns the display connection on which the PDM selection should be made. May 
be equal to print_display or video_display, or may be a new display connection 
that the caller should close when done.
.TP
.I selection_return
Returns the selection atom for which a PDM selection should be made.
.TP
.I type_return
Returns the type for the PDM Selection Protocol property the caller is expected 
to create.
.TP
.I format_return
Returns the format for the PDM Selection Protocol property the caller is 
expected to create.
.TP
.I data_return
Returns the data set for the PDM Selection Protocol property the caller is 
expected to create. The caller is expected to XFree the data when finished.
.TP
.I nelements_return
Returns the number of elements for the PDM Selection Protocol property the 
caller is expected to create.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This request returns a zero status if an error occurred, non-zero otherwise.

XpGetPdmStartParams is a convenience routine used to construct the necessary 
property information and selection display connection information needed to 
initiate a PDM Selection per the "PDM Selection Protocol". Once the information 
is constructed, the caller is responsible for the creation of a property, the 
generation of a SelectionRequest, the receipt of a SelectionNotify event, and 
the receipt of a ClientMessage event, as described in the PDM Selection Protocol.

When finished, the caller is expected to free data using XFree.
XpGetPdmStartParams returns zero if an error occurred, else non-zero. If an 
error occurs all 
.I other_return 
values are undefined.

Setting the environment variable XPDMSELECTION causes XpGetPdmStartParams to use 
an alternate selection name. If not set, the selection name 
.I
PDM_MANAGER 
is used.

Setting the environment variable XPDMDISPLAY causes XpGetPdmStartParams to 
locate the selection on an alternate X Server. If not set,
.I
selection_display_return
 is set equal to 
.I
print_display. 
If XPDMDISPLAY is set to one of the keywords "print" or "video",
.I
selection_display_return 
is set to 
.I
print_display 
or 
.I
video_display, 
respectively. If XPDMDISPLAY is set to a valid DISPLAY-style string, 
.I
selection_display_return 
may be set, as appropriate, to one of 
.I
print_display, 
.I
video_display, 
or to a new display connection opened from within 
XpGetPdmStartParams. Only in the single case where a new display connection is 
made should the caller close 
.I
selection_display_return 
using XCloseDisplay.

When XpGetPdmStartParams is called, the caller's locale (see XpSetLocaleHinter) 
is included in the information as a "hint" to the Print Dialog Manager (PDM). If 
supported by the implementation, the PDM will use the hint to display dialogs 
more appropriately labeled for the locale of the client. If the Print Dialog 
Manager cannot understand the hint, the PDM will choose a default. Note that the 
locale of the print attributes that the PDM will subsequently access, will 
already have been determined when the client called XpCreateContext.

The environment variables XPDMDISPLAY and XPDMSELECTION are re-read each time 
XpGetPdmStartParams is called.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XpCreateContext (3Xp),
.BR XpSetLocaleHinter (3Xp)
