.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" Copyright 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996, 1999, 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996 Fujitsu Limited
.\" Copyright 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.
.\" Copyright 1996 X Consortium, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.TH XpGetOneAttribute 3Xp __xorgversion__ "XPRINT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XpGetOneAttribute \-  Gets a single print attribute from the specified print 
context.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
      cc [ flag... ] file... -lXp [ library... ]	
.br
      #include <X11/extensions/Print.h>
.LP    
.B char *XpGetOneAttribute
(
.I display,
.I context,
.I type,
.I attribute_name
)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XPContext \fIcontext\fP\^;
.br
      XPAttributes \fItype\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIattribute_name\fP\^;     
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies a pointer to the Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay.
.TP
.I context
The print context from which the attribute pool is to be retrieved.
.TP
.I type
Specifies the attribute pool.
.TP
.I attribute_name
The name of the attribute to be returned.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This request returns a COMPOUND_TEXT string attribute_value, else NULL if any 
errors occurred.
XpGetOneAttribute is a variation of XpGetAttributes to get a single attribute 
value from an attribute pool. Unlike XpGetAttributes, where the reply contains 
an entire attribute pool, XpGetOneAttribute returns just one attribute_value.
attribute_name should not include a colon. The caller is expected to free the 
attribute value returned using XFree.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM BadAlloc
Insufficient memory.
.TP 15
.SM BadValue
The value specified for type is not valid.
.TP 15
.SM XPBadContext
The specified print context-id is not valid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XpGetAttributes (3Xp)

