.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" Copyright 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996, 1999, 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996 Fujitsu Limited
.\" Copyright 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.
.\" Copyright 1996 X Consortium, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.TH XpGetScreenOfContext 3Xp __xorgversion__ "XPRINT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XpGetScreenOfContext \-  Obtains a pointer to the screen associated with the 
specified print context.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
      cc [ flag... ] file... -lXp [ library... ]	
.br
      #include <X11/extensions/Print.h>
.LP    
.B Screen *XpGetScreenOfContext
(
.I display,
.I print_context
)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XPContext \fIprint_context\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies a pointer to the Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay.
.TP
.I print_context
A pre-existing print context. This argument is currently ignored, but must be 
specified.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
XpGetScreenOfContext returns the screen that is associated with the current 
print context of display. This call must be made after XpSetContext to determine 
which specific screen other X resources must be created on.

Each printer supported by a print server is associated with exactly one of the 
screens returned in the connection setup reply. 

This function returns NULL if failed to get the screen.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM XPBadContext
A valid print context-id has not been set prior to making this call.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XpSetContext (3Xp)

