.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" Copyright 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996, 1999, 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996 Fujitsu Limited
.\" Copyright 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.
.\" Copyright 1996 X Consortium, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.TH XpInputSelected 3Xp __xorgversion__ "XPRINT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XpInputSelected \- Queries which X Print events the client has selected to 
receive 
from the specific print context.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
      cc [ flag... ] file... -lXp [ library... ]	
.br
      #include <X11/extensions/Print.h>
.LP    
.B unsigned long XpInputSelected
(
.I display, 
.I context, 
.I event_mask
)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XPContext \fIcontext\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long *\fIall_event_mask_return\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies a pointer to the Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay.
.TP
.I context
Specifies the print context to which the query is being made.
.TP
.I all_event_mask_return
Returns the set of events that any client has selected.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
XpInputSelected returns a bit mask describing which event classes the client has 
selected to receive. The value returned to 
.I
all_event_mask_return 
is the union of every client's event mask.
XpInputSelected queries which X Print events from the specified print context 
the 
client has selected to receive. The X Print Events are generated from a print 
context, and not from a window as is the case with XSelectInput. As events 
arrive, 
the context field in the event is used to determine which print context 
generated 
the event.
.\"--- The following line; all_event_mask is not in either XpSelectInput or 
.\"--- XpInputSelected!!!!
See XpSelectInput for the 
.I event_mask 
and 
.I all_event_mask
(??return??) values.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM XPBadContext
The specified print context is not valid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XpSelectInput (3Xp)


