.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" Copyright 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996, 1999, 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996 Fujitsu Limited
.\" Copyright 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.
.\" Copyright 1996 X Consortium, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.TH XpQueryVersion 3Xp __xorgversion__ "XPRINT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XpQueryVersion \- Queries an X Server to determine if it supports the X Print 
Service Extension, and if it does, which version of the X Print Service 
Extension.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
      cc [ flag... ] file... -lXp [ library... ]	
.br
      #include <X11/extensions/Print.h>
.LP    
.B Status XpQueryVersion
(
.I display, 
.I major_version_return, 
.I minor_version_return 
)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      short *\fImajor_version_return\fP\^;
.br
      short *\fIminor_version_return\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies a pointer to the Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay.
.TP
.I major_version_return
Returns the major version if the X Print Service Extension exists, else zero.
.TP
.I minor_version_return
Returns the minor version if the X Print Service Extension exists, else zero.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
XpQueryVersion determines if the X Print Service Extension is present. A 
non-zero Status is returned if the extension is supported, otherwise a zero 
Status is returned. If the extension is supported, the major and minor version 
numbers are returned to indicate the level of X Print Service Extension support.

The X Print Service Extension is initialized on the first call to any X Print 
Service function; there is no need to explicitly initialize the X Print Service 
Extension.
