.\" $XdotOrg: xc/doc/man/Xp/XpSetAttributes.man,v 1.1 2004/05/22 06:27:25 alanc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" Copyright 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996, 1999, 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996 Fujitsu Limited
.\" Copyright 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.
.\" Copyright 1996 X Consortium, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.TH XpSetAttributes 3Xp __xorgversion__ "XPRINT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XpSetAttributes \- Sets or updates an attribute pool in the specified print 
context.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
      cc [ flag... ] file... -lXp [ library... ]	
.br
      #include <X11/extensions/Print.h>
.LP    
.B void XpSetAttributes
(
.I display, 
.I context, 
.I type, 
.I pool, 
.I replacement_rule
)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XPContext \fIcontext\fP\^;
.br
      XPAttributes \fItype\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIpool\fP\^;
.br
      XPAttrReplacement \fIreplacement_rule\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies a pointer to the Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay.
.TP
.I context
The print context whose attribute pool is to be modified.
.TP
.I type
Specifies the attribute pool.
.TP
.I pool
An attribute pool represented as a resource string. Encoded in COMPOUND_TEXT.
.TP
.I replacement_rule
Either XPAttrReplace orXPAttrMerge.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
XpSetAttributes accepts pool, a COMPOUND_TEXT resource string representing new 
name-value pairs for the attribute pool specified by type. The attribute pool 
is modified by the new name-value pairs according to replacement_rule. For 
XPAttrReplace, the existing attribute pool is discarded and replaced with 
pool. For XPAttrMerge, pool is merged into the existing attribute pool; 
pre-existing name-value pairs are replaced, and non-existing name-value pairs 
are added. The contents of pool is not affected by this call, and can be freed 
by the caller afterwards.

When setting supported attribute names, the X Print Server and associated 
driver will validate the new values and ignore those that are invalid; 
previous values remain unchanged. When setting unsupported (that is, unknown) 
attribute names, no validation is done, and the name-value pairs will be set, 
even though they will not be used. When deleting (that is, failing to reset 
with XPAttrReplace) a supported attribute name, the X Print Server explicitly 
or implicitly resets the attribute to a default value.

When setting certain supported attributes, the X Print Server may modify other 
associated attributes. For example, considering the XPPrinterAttr attribute 
document-formats-supported, setting the XPDocAttr attribute document-format 
may cause a number of other attributes to change.

For attribute pools that are read-only (see "get only" in XPAttributes 
definition), attempting to use XpSetAttributes generates a BadMatch. For 
attribute pools that are writable, lists of the supported attributes can be 
found in the XPPrinterAttr pool.

The lifetime of all attribute pools are bounded by the lifetime of the print 
context they are contained in. When set, all attribute values will be retained 
across all Xp operations, until changed by the user directly, the X Print 
Server directly, or changed because of a side effect when either the user or X 
Print Server changed another attribute value.

Refer to a complete description of all print attributes, the precedence 
between print attributes, and the side effects of setting certain print 
attributes on other print attributes, etc. 

To monitor changes to the attribute pools, see XpSelectInput and the event 
XPAttributeNotify. Since a print context can be shared among clients, changes 
made by one client will be seen by all others, and if selected for, the event 
XPAttributeNotify will be sent to all clients referencing the print context 
when changes do occur. It is the responsibility of the clients sharing a print 
context to coordinate their operations.
.SH STRUCTURES
The values for the typedef XPAttributes in <X11/extensions/Print.h> are:
.nf

    #define XPJobAttr		1	/\(** get/set */
    #define XPDocAttr		2	/\(** get/set */
    #define XPPageAttr		3	/\(** get/set - subset of XPDocAttr */
    #define XPPrinterAttr	4	/\(** get only (library) */
    #define XPServerAttr		5	/\(** get only (library), no context needed */

.fi
The values for the typedef XPAttrReplacement in <X11/extensions/Print.h> are:
.nf

    #define XPAttrReplace	1
    #define XPAttrMerge		2

.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM BadAlloc
Insufficient memory.
.TP 15
.SM BadMatch
The attribute pool specified by pool cannot be set.
.TP 15
.SM BadValue
The value specified for type is not valid.
.TP 15
.SM XPBadContext
The specified print context-id is not valid.
.TP 15
.SM XPBadSequence
A request to set an attribute pool occurred at a time when the attribute pool 
could not be modified (for example, modifying XPJobAttr immediately after 
calling XpStartJob).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
<X11/extensions/Print.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XpSelectInput (3Xp),
.BR XpStartJob (3Xp)


