.\" $XdotOrg: xc/doc/man/Xp/XpStartJob.man,v 1.1 2004/05/22 06:27:25 alanc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" Copyright 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996, 1999, 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.
.\" Copyright 1996 Fujitsu Limited
.\" Copyright 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.
.\" Copyright 1996 X Consortium, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.TH XpStartJob 3Xp __xorgversion__ "XPRINT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XpStartJob \-  Indicates the beginning of a single print job.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
      cc [ flag... ] file... -lXp [ library... ]	
.br
      #include <X11/extensions/Print.h>
.LP    
.B void XpStartJob
(
.I display,
.I output_mode
)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XPSaveData \fIoutput_mode\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies a pointer to the Display structure; returned from XOpenDisplay.
.TP
.I output_mode
Specifies how the printer output data is to be handled.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
XpStartJob signals the beginning of a new print job.

If 
.I output_mode 
is XPSpool the X Print Server will automatically spool the 
printer output. If 
.I output_mode 
is XPGetData, then the X Print Server buffers the 
document output for retrieval by XpGetDocumentData. In this case, the print 
server suspends processing further requests on this print context until some 
other client sends XpGetDocumentData. Subsequent operations that use the print 
context may be suspended at any time pending the processing of XpGetDocumentData 
replies to read any buffered output.


XpStartJob sets the job-owner job attribute (included in the XPJobAttr pool) 
immediately prior to issuing the PrintStartJob request. On POSIX systems, the 
job-owner attribute is set using getpwuid_r on the result of getuid. This 
attribute may be used by the X Print Server to identify the user to the spooler.

All changes to the XPJobAttr attribute pool (see XpSetAttributes) must be made 
prior to calling XpStartJob, after which an XPBadSequence will be generated if 
changes are attempted, until XpEndJob is called.

For clients selecting XPPrintMask (see XpSelectInput), the event XPPrintNotify 
will be generated with its detail field set to XPStartJobNotify when the X Print 
Server has completed the PrintStartJob request.

Conceptually, a "Job" is a collection of "Documents", where each Document is in 
turn a collection of "Pages". Depending on the print facilities underlying the X 
Print Server, these delineations may be mapped by a DDX driver into real 
functionality (e.g. see the server attribute multiple-documents-supported).

.SH STRUCTURES
The XPSaveData values for output_mode are defined in <X11/extensions/Print.h>.
:

.nf

    #define XPSpool               1   /\(** Job data sent to spooler */
    #define XPGetData             2   /\(** Job data via XpGetDocumentData */
    
.fi    

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM BadValue
The value specified for output_mode is not valid.
.TP 15
.SM XPBadContext
A valid print context-id has not been set prior to making this call.
.TP 15
.SM XPBadSequence
The function was not called in the proper order with respect to the other X 
Print Service 
Extension calls (example, XpEndDoc prior to XpStartDoc).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XpEndJob (3Xp),
.BR XpGetDocumentData (3Xp),
.BR XpSelectInput (3Xp),
.BR XpSetAttributes (3Xp),
.BR XpStartJob (3Xp)
