.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.TH xkbbell  __appmansuffix__ __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
xkbbell - XKB extension user utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xkbbell
[-display <dpy>]
[-synch]
[-dev <id>]
[-force]
[-nobeep]
[-bf <id>]
[-kf <id>]
[-v <volume>]
[-w <id>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
user utility
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-display <dpy>
specifies which display to use
.TP 8
.B \-synch
turns on synchronization
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-dev <id>
specifies which device to use
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-force
force audible bell
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-nobeep
suppress server bell, event only
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bf <id>
specifies which bell feedback to use
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-kf <id> 
specifies which keyboard feedback to use
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-v <volume>
specifies which volume to use
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-w <id>
specifies which  window to use
.PP
If neither device nor feedback are specified, xkbbell uses the default values 
for the core keyboard device.
