.TH XEYES 1 2023-05-28 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
xeyes \- a follow the mouse X demo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xeyes
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xeyes
watches what you do and reports to the Boss.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIforeground_color\fB
choose a different color for the pupil of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIbackground_color\fB
choose a different color for the background.
.TP 8
.B \-outline \fIoutline_color\fB
choose a different color for the outline of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-center \fIcenter_color\fB
choose a different color for the center of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-backing WhenMapped\fP | \fBAlways\fP | \fBNotUseful\fP
selects an appropriate level of backing store.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fB
define the initial window geometry; see
.BR X (__miscmansuffix__).
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fB
specify the display to use; see
.BR X (__miscmansuffix__).
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIborder_color\fB
choose a different color for the window border.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIborder_width\fB
choose a different width for the window border.
.TP 8
.B \-shape
uses the SHAPE extension to shape the window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B +shape
disables use of the SHAPE extension to shape the window.
.TP 8
.B \-render
uses Xrender to draw anti-aliased eyes.
This is the default if \fBxeyes\fP has been compiled with Xrender support.
.TP 8
.B +render
disables Xrender and draws traditional eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-distance
uses an alternative mapping, as if the eyes were set back from the screen,
thus following the mouse more precisely.
.TP 8
.B \-biblicallyAccurate
renders the eyes as if they belonged to a biblically accurate angel.
.TP 8
.B \-help
print a usage message and exit.
.TP 8
.B \-version
print the version number and exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR X (__miscmansuffix__),
X Toolkit documentation
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
.br
Copied from the NeWS version written (apparently) by Jeremy Huxtable as seen
at SIGGRAPH '88
