.\" Copyright 1994, 1998  The Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall not
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the
.\" The Open Group.
.\"
.TH ICEAUTH 1 2025-04-26 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
iceauth \- ICE authority file utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iceauth
[\fB\-f\fP \fIauthfile\fP] [\fB\-vqibuV\fP] [\fIcommand arg ...\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBiceauth\fP program is used to edit and display the authorization
information used in connecting with ICE
(the X11 Inter-Client Exchange protocol).
This program is usually used to extract authorization records from one machine
and merge them in on another
(as is the case when using remote logins or granting access to other users).
Commands (described below) may be entered interactively,
on the \fBiceauth\fP command line, or in scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 16
.BI \-f " authfile"
Name of the authority file to use.
Will default to the file currently in use by the session.
.TP 16
.B \-v
Turns on extra messages (verbose mode)
.TP 16
.B \-q
Turns off extra messages (quiet mode)
.TP 16
.B \-i
Ignore the locks on the authority file
.TP 16
.B \-b
Break the locks on the authority file
.TP 16
.B \-u
Print basic usage instructions
.TP 16
.B \--help
Print basic usage instructions
.TP 16
.B \-V
Print version and exit
.TP 16
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit
.SH USAGE
When \fBiceauth\fP is run it will allow the following set of commands
to be entered interactively or in scripts.
Remember that arguments given on the shell command line will be displayed in
shell histories and may be visible to other users via tools such as
.BR ps (1),
thus exposing the value of any cookies or other authentication secrets
provided on the shell command line.
.TP
.B ?
List available commands.
.TP
.B help
Print help information.
You may supply a command name to \fIhelp\fP
to get specific information about it.
.TP
.B info
Print information about the entries in the authority file.
.TP
\fBlist\fP [\fIprotocol_name\fP] [\fIprotocol_data\fP] \
[\fInetid\fP] [\fIauthname\fP]
List (print) entries in the authority file.
You may specify optional modifiers to specify which entries are listed.
.TP
\fBadd\fP \fIprotocol_name\fP \fIprotocol_data\fP \fInetid\fP \
\fIauthname\fP \fIauthdata\fP
Add an entry to the authority file.
.TP
\fBremove\fP [\fIprotocol_name\fP] [\fIprotocol_data\fP] \
[\fInetid\fP] [\fIauthname\fP]
Remove entries from the authority file.
.TP
\fBextract\fP \fIfilename\fP [\fIprotocol_name\fP] [\fIprotocol_data\fP] \
[\fInetid\fP] [\fIauthname\fP]
Extract entries from the authority file in to a destination file.
You must supply the path to the destination file.
Optional specifiers allow you to narrow which entries are extracted.
.TP
\fBmerge\fP \fIfilename1\fP [\fIfilename2\fP [\fIfilename3\fP]]...
Merge entries from other files in to the authority file selected by the program.
You may supply any number of file paths to this command.
.TP
.B exit
Save changes and exit the program.
.TP
.B quit
Abort changes and exit the program without saving.
.TP
\fBsource\fP \fIfilename\fP
Read and execute commands from a file.
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph Mor, X Consortium
