.\" $OpenBSD: wildcatfb.man,v 1.2 2010/08/29 15:05:55 matthieu Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Miodrag Vallat.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH WILDCATFB __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
wildcatfb \- video driver for Sun Expert3D framebuffer family
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qwildcatfb\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wildcatfb
is an __xservername__ driver for the Sun Expert3D framebuffer family,
relying upon the OpenBSD console mode framebuffer driver of the same name.
This driver is not accelerated yet, and only supports a 7-bit framebuffer
depth.
.br
All visual types are supported.
Multi-head configurations are supported.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.
This section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.
.PP
For this driver it is not required to specify modes in the 
.B Screen
section of the configuration file.
The
.B wildcatfb
driver picks up the currently used video mode from the framebuffer
driver and uses it.
Video modes specifications in the configuration file are ignored.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(1), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(1), Xserver(1),
X(__miscmansuffix__), wsdisplay(__drivermansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
This driver has been written by Miod Vallat, reusing code from the wsfb driver
whose authors include Matthieu Herrb, Gerd Knorr, Michel Dänzer,
Geert Uytterhoeven, as well as code from the shadow extension written by
Keith Packard.
