.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH VMWARE __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
vmware \- VMware SVGA video driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qvmware\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmware 
is an __xservername__ driver for VMware virtual video cards. 
.SH MODESETTING, XINERAMA AND RANDR12
If the driver can connect to the \*qvmwgfx\*q kernel module on linux, it
will attempt to use kernel modesetting and will then also use RandR12 for
multiple output operation instead of Xinerama. The X server log or the
\*qxrandr\*q application can be used to determine whether RandR12 or Xinerama
is actually used.
.SH 3D ACCELERATION
If the driver can connect to the \*qvmwgfx\*q kernel module on linux, and
the Virtual Machine is set up to use 3D acceleration, the driver will try to
use Gallium3D XA to accelerate 3D operations. It will also by default enable
DRI, the Direct Rendering Infrastructure, primarily for accelerated OpenGL.
If 3D acceleration is available,
the driver will in addition provide an additional XVideo adaptor for textured
video. Gallium3D XA,\*libxatracker.so\*q and the accelerated OpenGL driver,
\*qvmwgfx_dri.so\*q is provided by the mesa distribution.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The driver auto-detects the version of any virtual VMware SVGA adapter.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qHWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable the HW cursor.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qXinerama\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable Xinerama support. Default: xinerama is enabled if the
hardware supports it.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qStaticXinerama\*q \*q" string \*q
Provide a static xinerama geometry that will be active at server startup
and will not be overridden at runtime.
The format is "Width1xHeight1+Xoffset1+Yoffset1;Width2xHeight2+Xoffset2+Yoffset2" and so on. Negative offsets are not supported. If the driver is using
RandR12, this option should be used to place and enable outputs at driver
startup time or else when VMware tools is not used for that purpose.
Also please see option \*qGuiLayout\*q.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qGuiLayout\*q \*q" string \*q
A synonym to option \*qStaticXinerama\*q, since the latter name is somewhat
misleading when RandR12 is favoured before Xinerarma.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qAddDefaultMode\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Provide a default mode with a resolution identical to the resolution of the
guest before the X server was started. The X server will thus try to start
without changing resolution. Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRenderAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Try to accelerate render operations if the operations are reading from
previously accelerated contents (3D or video). This option is needed for
3D support. Default: on if 3D acceleration is supported. Otherwise off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDRI\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable the Direct Rendering Infrastructure. Default: on if 3D acceleration is
supported and \*qRenderAccel\*q is enabled. Otherwise off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDirectPresents\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Speed up OpenGL swapbuffers by skipping a copy operation. This provides some
OpenGL swapbuffer speedups, but may cause performance
degradation and rendering errors when 3D contents is read back for mixing
with software rendered contents. Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qHwPresents\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This is a developer convenience option and should not be used by distros
or normal users. When enabled, it copies software rendered contents to a
3D surface before presenting it, so that the visible screen is always present
on a 3D surface. Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRenderCheck\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This is a developer convenience option and should not be used by distros
or normal users. When enabled, it tries to use 3D acceleration for all
XRender operations where 3D acceleration is supported, resulting in a
considerable slowdown due to the increased number of readbacks of
accelerated contents from host to guest. This option is used to verify
that the accelerated Xrender paths works correctly with the "rendercheck"
application. Default: off.
.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__), xrandr(__appmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (c) 1999-2007 VMware, Inc.
