.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/drivers/apm/apm.man,v 1.3 2002/05/07 12:53:49 alanh Exp $ 
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH APM __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
apm \- Alliance ProMotion video driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qapm\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B apm 
is an __xservername__ driver for Alliance ProMotion video cards. The driver
is accelerated for supported hardware/depth combination. It supports
framebuffer depths of 8, 15, 16, 24 and 32 bits. For 6420, 6422, AT24,
AT3D and AT25, all depths are fully accelerated except 24 bpp for which
only screen to screen copy and rectangle filling is accelerated.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The
.B apm
driver supports PCI and ISA video cards on the following Alliance
ProMotion chipsets
.TP 12
.B ProMotion 6420
.TP 12
.B ProMotion 6422
.TP 12
.B AT24
.TP 12
.B AT3D
.TP 12
.B AT25
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The driver auto-detects the chipset type, but the following
.B ChipSet
names may optionally be specified in the config file
.B \*qDevice\*q
section, and will override the auto-detection:
.PP
.RS 4
"6422", "at24", "at3d".
.PP
The AT25 is Chipset "at3d" and the 6420 is 6422.
.PP
The driver will auto-detect the amount of video memory present for all
chips. The actual amount of video memory can also be specified with a
.B VideoRam
entry in the config file
.B \*qDevice\*q
section.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qHWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable the hardware cursor.  Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable acceleration.  Default: acceleration is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoLinear\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable use of linear frame buffer. Default: on.
Note: it may or may not work. Tell me if you need it.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPciRetry\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable PCI retries.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRemap_DPMS_On\*q \*q" string \*q
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRemap_DPMS_Standby\*q \*q" string \*q
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRemap_DPMS_Suspend\*q \*q" string \*q
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRemap_DPMS_Off\*q \*q" string \*q
Remaps the corresponding DPMS events. I've found that my
Hercules 128/3D swaps Off and Suspend events. You can correct
that with
.nf
.RS
.RS
.BI "Option \*qRemap_DPMS_Suspend\*q \*qOff\*q"
.BI "Option \*qRemap_DPMS_Off\*q \*qSuspend\*q"
.RE
.fi
in the
.B Device
section of the config file.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Force the software cursor.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer.  Default: off.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(1), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), Xserver(1), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: ...
