.\" $Xorg: xcmsdb.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:39 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1990, Tektronix Inc.
.\" Copyright 1993, 1998  The Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
.\" THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF 
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall not 
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other 
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the 
.\" The Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xcmsdb/xcmsdb.man,v 1.6 2001/01/27 18:21:09 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH XCMSDB 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
xcmsdb \- Device Color Characterization utility for X Color Management System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcmsdb
[ \fB\-query\fP ] [ \fB\-remove\fP ]
[ \fB\-format\032\fP|\fB16\fP|\fB8\fP ]
[ \fIfilename\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xcmsdb
is used to load, query, or remove Device Color Characterization data 
stored in properties on the root window of the screen as specified
in section 7, Device Color Characterization, of the ICCCM.
Device Color Characterization data (also called the Device Profile)
is an integral part of Xlib's X Color Management System (Xcms), necessary
for proper conversion of color specification between device-independent
and device-dependent forms.
Xcms uses 3x3 matrices stored in the XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_MATRICES property to
convert color specifications between CIEXYZ and RGB Intensity (XcmsRGBi, also
referred to as linear RGB).
Xcms then uses display gamma information stored in the
XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_CORRECTION property to convert color specifications between
RGBi and RGB device (XcmsRGB, also referred to as device RGB).
.LP
Note that Xcms allows clients to register \fIfunction sets\fP
in addition to its
built-in function set for CRT color monitors.  Additional function sets
may store their device profile information in other properties in function
set specific format.
This utility is unaware of these non-standard properties.
.LP
The ASCII readable contents of
.I filename
(or the standard input if no input file is given)
are appropriately transformed for storage in properties, provided the
.B \-query 
or 
.B \-remove 
options are not specified.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.I xcmsdb
program accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-query
This option attempts to read the XDCCC properties off the screen's root
window.
If successful, it transforms the data into a more readable format, then
sends the data to standard out.  
.TP 8
.B \-remove
This option attempts to remove the XDCCC properties on the screen's root
window.
.TP 8
\fB\-format\032\fP|\fB16\fP|\fB8\fP
Specifies the property format (32, 16, or 8 bits per entry) for the
XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_CORRECTION property.
Precision of encoded floating point values increases with the increase
in bits per entry.
The default is 32 bits per entry.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xprop(1), Xlib documentation
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to figure out which display and screen to use.
.SH AUTHOR
Chuck Adams, Tektronix Inc.
Al Tabayoyon, SynChromatics Inc. (added multi-visual support)
