.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH syndaemon __appmansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
.LP
syndaemon \- a program that monitors keyboard activity and disables
the touchpad when the keyboard is being used.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
syndaemon [\fI\-i idle\-time\fP] [\fI\-m poll-inverval\fP] [\fI\-d\fP] [\fI\-p pid\-file\fP]
[\fI\-t\fP] [\fI\-k\fP] [\fI\-K\fP] [\fI\-R\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
Disabling the touchpad while typing avoids unwanted movements of the
pointer that could lead to giving focus to the wrong window.
.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.TP
\fB\-i\fR <\fIidle\-time\fP>
How many seconds to wait after the last key press before enabling the
touchpad.
.
(default is 2.0s). 
.LP
.TP
\fB\-m\fR <\fIpoll\-interval\fP>
How many milliseconds to wait between two polling intervals. If this value is
too low, it will cause unnecessary wake-ups. If this value is too high,
some key presses (press and release happen between two intervals) may not
be noticed. This switch has no effect when running with
\fB-R\fP.
.
Default is 200ms.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
Start as a daemon, ie in the background.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-p\fR <\fIpid\-file\fP>
Create a pid file with the specified filename.
.
A pid file will only be created if the program is started in daemon
mode.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
Only disable tapping and scrolling, not mouse movements, in response
to keyboard activity.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-k\fP
Ignore modifier keys when monitoring keyboard activity.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-K\fP
Like \-k but also ignore Modifier+Key combos.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-R\fP
Use the XRecord extension for detecting keyboard activity instead of polling
the keyboard state.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Show the help message.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP
.TP
\fBDISPLAY\fP
Specifies the X server to contact.
.SH EXIT CODES
If syndaemon exists with a return code other than 0, the error encountered
is as below.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 1
Invalid commandline argument.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 2
The connection to the X sever could not be established or no touchpad device
could be found.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 3
The fork into daemon mode failed or the pid file could not be created.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 4
XRECORD requested but not available or usable on the server.
.SH "CAVEATS"
.LP
It doesn't make much sense to connect to a remote X server, because
the daemon will then monitor the remote server for keyboard activity,
but will disable the touchpad on the local machine.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
Peter Osterlund <petero2@telia.com>.
.TP
This man page was written by Mattia Dongili <malattia@debian.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), synclient(__appmansuffix__), synaptics(__drivermansuffix__)
