.\" This manpage is copyright (C) 2007 Canonical, Ltd
.\" Author: Bryce Harrington <bryce@ubuntu.com>
.\"
.\" This is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2,
.\" or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with the Debian GNU/Linux system; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\" 02111-1307 USA
.\"
.\" That's right, although mdetect itself is under the QPL, this manpage is
.\" under the GPL.  Enjoy!
.TH vmmouse_detect __appmansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
vmmouse_detect \- VMware mouse device autodetection tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
vmmouse_detect
.SH OPTIONS
vmmouse_detect has no options
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmmouse_detect
is a tool for detecting if running in a VMware environment where vmmouse
is used.  It exits with a 0 return value if the vmmouse client is
enabled, and 1 if not.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR vmmouse_detect 's
exit status is used to communicate information.
.IP 0
.B vmmouse_detect
found a mouse and exited normally.
.IP 1
Either the vmmouse client was not enabled, or it is not being run from
within a VMware virtual machine.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs in
.B vmmouse_detect
<https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mdetect/vmmouse_detect>.
.SH AUTHORS
.B vmmouse_detect
is copyright 2007 VMware, Inc.
.SH LICENSING
The
.B vmmouse_detect
source code is licensed under a BSD-like license.  See COPYING for
details.
.PP
This manual page is licensed under the GNU General Public License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mdetect (1),
.IR Xorg (1),
.IR vmmouse (__drivermansuffix__)
