.\" $Xorg: iceauth.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:31 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1994, 1998  The Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
.\" THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF 
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall not 
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other 
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the 
.\" The Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/iceauth/iceauth.man,v 3.6 2001/01/27 18:21:03 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH ICEAUTH 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
iceauth \- ICE authority file utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iceauth
[ \fB\-f\fP \fIauthfile\fP ] [ \fB\-vqib\fP ] [ \fIcommand arg ...\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIiceauth\fP program is used to edit and display the authorization 
information used in connecting with ICE.  This program is usually
used to extract authorization records from one machine and merge them in on 
another (as is the case when using remote logins or granting access to
other users).  Commands (described below) may be entered interactively,
on the \fIiceauth\fP command line, or in scripts.
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph Mor, X Consortium
