.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/lib/Xfontcache/Xfontcache.man,v 1.1 2003/10/13 21:19:28 herrb Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 The XFree86 Project, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE XFREE86 PROJECT BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES
.\" OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the XFree86 Project
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the XFree86 Project.
.\" 
.TH Xfontcache __libmansuffix__  __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
Xfontcache \- X-TrueType font cache extension client library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <X11/extensions/FontCache.h>
.PP
.nf
.ta .5i 2i
typedef struct {
	long	himark;
	long	lowmark;
	long	balance;
} FontCacheSettings, *FontCacheSettingsPtr;

struct cacheinfo {
	long	hits;
	long	misshits;
	long	purged;
	long	usage;
};

typedef struct {
	long	purge_runs;
	long	purge_stat;
	long	balance;
	struct cacheinfo	f;
	struct cacheinfo	v;
} FontCacheStatistics, *FontCacheStatisticsPtr;
.fi
.HP
Bool FontCacheQueryExtension(Display *\fIdpy\fP, 
int *\fIevent_basep\fP, int *\fIerror_basep\fP\^);
.HP
Status FontCacheQueryVersion(Display *\fIdpy\fP, int *\fImajor_versionp\fP,
int *\fIminor_versionp\fP\^);
.HP
Status FontCacheGetCacheSettings(Display *\fIdpy\fP,
FontCacheSettings *\fIcache info\fP);
.HP
Status FontCacheChangeCacheSettings(Display *\fIdpy\fP,
FontCacheSettings *\fIcache info\fP);
.HP
Status FontCacheGetCacheStatistics(Display *\fIdpy\fP,
FontCacheStatistics *\fIcache statistics info\fP);
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B FontCache
is an extension that is used by X-TrueType to cache informations about
fonts. 
.\" XXXX This should be filled in
.PP
.B FontCacheQueryExtension
returns
.B True
if the 
.I FontCache
extension is available on the given display.
A client must call 
.B FontCacheQueryExtension
before calling any other Xfontcache function in order
to negotiate a compatible protocol version; otherwise the client will
get undefined behavior (Xfontcache may or may not work).
.PP
.B FontCacheQueryVersion
returns
.B True
if the request succeeded; the values of the major and minor protocol
versions supported by the server are returned in 
.I major_versionp 
and 
.I minor_versionp .
.PP
.B FontCacheGetCacheSettings
should be documented here. 
Returns 
.B True
on success or 
.B False
on failure. 
.PP
.B FontCacheChangeCacheSettings
should be documented here.
Returns 
.B True
on success or 
.B False
on failure. 
.PP
.B FontCacheGetCacheStatistics
should be documented here.
Returns 
.B True
on success or 
.B False
on failure. 
.SH "ERRORS"
.B FontCacheChangeCacheSettings
will return 
.I BadValue
if passed an illegal parameters for lowmark, himark or balance fields.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHOR
Akio Morita, X-TrueType team, Nozomi Ytow.
.SH STABILITY
This API is considered as experimental. The Xfontcache library major
revision may be incremented whenever incompatible changes are done to
the API without notice. Use with care. 
