.\" $XFree86$
.\"
.\" Copyright 2004 Red Hat Inc., Durham, North Carolina.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation on the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
.\" publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
.\" and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
.\" subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" he above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
.\" next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial
.\" portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
.\" NON-INFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL RED HAT AND/OR THEIR SUPPLIERS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
.\" CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.TH DMXGetScreenCount 3X __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
DMXGetScreenCount \- determine number of back-end screens
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <X11/extensions/dmxext.h>
.sp
.nf
.BI "Bool DMXGetScreenCount(Display " *dpy ,
.BI "                       int " *screen_count );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DMXGetScreenCount()
returns the number of back-end screens that a
.BR Xdmx (1)
server controls.  Since a DMX screen usually fills all of the available
area on a back-end server, there is usually a one-to-one correspondence
between DMX screens and backend servers.  However, it is also possible
for a DMX screen to cover only part of the available area on a back-end
server, and for more than one DMX screens to occupy different parts of
the visible area on the same back-end server.
.PP
A DMX screen may be managed as a regular X screen in the
.BR Xdmx (1)
server or may be joined with other DMX screens using Xinerama.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B DMXGetScreenCount()
sets
.I screen_count
and returns
.B True
unless there is a protocol error.
.SH NOTES
If Xinerama is active, only one logical screen will be available to
clients of the
.BR Xdmx (1)
server.  However, this call will accurately reflect the number of
composite back-end screens that the
.BR Xdmx (1)
server is using.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DMXGetScreenAttribtues "(3X), "
.BR DMXChangeScreenAttributes "(3X), "
.BR DMX "(3X), " Xdmx (1)
