.\" $XFree86$
.\"
.\" Copyright 2004 Red Hat Inc., Durham, North Carolina.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation on the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
.\" publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
.\" and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
.\" subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" he above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
.\" next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial
.\" portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
.\" NON-INFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL RED HAT AND/OR THEIR SUPPLIERS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
.\" CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.TH DMXQueryExtension 3X __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
DMXQueryExtension \- determine if DMX is available
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <X11/extensions/dmxext.h>
.sp
.nf
.BI "Bool DMXQueryExtension(Display " *dpy ,
.BI "                       int " *event_basep ,
.BI "                       int " *error_basep );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DMXQueryExtension()
determines if the DMX protocol extension is available.  It will be
available if the server is an
.BR Xdmx (1)
server.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the DMX protocol extension is available,
.I event_basep
and
.I error_basep
will be set to the event and error bases, respectively, and
.B True
will be returned.  Otherwise,
.B False
will be returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DMXQueryVersion "(3X), "
.BR DMX "(3X), " Xdmx (1)
