.\" $XTermId: resize.man,v 1.16 2007/05/24 21:44:06 tom Exp $
.\"
.\" updated by Thomas E. Dickey for XFree86, 1998-2002.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xterm/resize.man,v 1.12 2006/02/13 01:14:59 dickey Exp $
.TH RESIZE 1 __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
resize \- set TERMCAP and terminal settings to current xterm window size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B resize
[ \fB\-u\fP | \fB\-c\fP ] [ \fB\-s\fP [ \fIrow col\fP ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Resize
prints a shell command for setting the TERM and TERMCAP environment variables
to indicate the current size of \fIxterm\fP window from which the command
is run.  For this output to take effect, \fIresize\fP must either be evaluated
as part of the command line (usually done with a shell alias or function) or
else redirected to a file which can then be read in.  From the C shell (usually
known as \fI/bin/csh\fP), the following alias could be defined in the 
user's \fI.cshrc\fP:
.sp
.nf
        %  alias rs 'set noglob; eval \fC`\fPresize\fC`\fP'
.fi
.sp
After resizing the window, the user would type:
.sp
.nf
        %  rs
.fi
.sp
Users of versions of the Bourne shell (usually known as \fI/bin/sh\fP) that 
don't have command
functions will need to send the output to a temporary file and the read it back
in with the ``.'' command:
.sp
.nf
        $  resize > /tmp/out
        $  .\0/tmp/out
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
The following options may be used with \fIresize\fP:
.TP 8
.B \-u
This option indicates that Bourne shell commands should be generated even if 
the user's current shell isn't \fI/bin/sh\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-c
This option indicates that C shell commands should be generated even if the
user's current shell isn't \fI/bin/csh\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-s \fR[\fIrows columns\fP]
This option indicates that Sun console escape sequences will be used 
instead of the VT100-style \fIxterm\fP escape codes.
If \fIrows\fP and
\fIcolumns\fP are given, \fIresize\fP will ask the \fIxterm\fP to resize
itself.  However, the window manager may choose to disallow the change.
.sp
Note that the Sun console escape sequences are recognized
by XFree86 \fIxterm\fP and
by \fIdtterm\fP.
The \fIresize\fP program may be installed as \fIsunsize\fP,
which causes makes it assume the \fB\-s\fP option.
.sp
The \fIrows\fP and
\fIcolumns\fP arguments must appear last; though they are normally
associated with the \fB\-s\fP option, they are parsed separately.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/etc/termcap
for the base termcap entry to modify.
.TP 15
~/.cshrc
user's alias for the command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csh(1), tset(1), xterm(__mansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Mark Vandevoorde (MIT-Athena), Edward Moy (Berkeley)
.br
Copyright (c) 1984, 1985 by X Consortium
.br
See
.IR X (__miscmansuffix__)
for a complete copyright notice.
