.\" $Xorg: security.cpp,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:42:05 cpqbld Exp $
.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\" 
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/general/security.man,v 1.4tsi Exp $
.\"
.nr )S 12
.TH XSECURITY __miscmansuffix__ __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
Xsecurity \- X display access control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
X provides mechanism for implementing many access control systems.
The sample implementation includes six mechanisms:
.nf
.br
.ta 3.4i
    Host Access	Simple host-based access control.
    MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1	Shared plain-text "cookies".
    XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1	Secure DES based private-keys.
    SUN-DES-1	Based on Sun's secure rpc system.
    MIT-KERBEROS-5	Kerberos Version 5 user-to-user.
    Server Interpreted	Server-dependent methods of access control
.fi
Not all of these are available in all builds or implementations.
.SH "ACCESS SYSTEM DESCRIPTIONS"
.IP "Host Access"
Any client on a host in the host access control list is allowed access to
the X server.  This system can work reasonably well in an environment
where everyone trusts everyone, or when only a single person can log in
to a given machine, and is easy to use when the list of hosts used is small.
This system does not work well when multiple people can log in to a single
machine and mutual trust does not exist.
The list of allowed hosts is stored in the X server and can be changed with
the \fIxhost\fP command.   The list is stored in the server by network 
address, not host names, so is not automatically updated if a host changes
address while the server is running.
When using the more secure mechanisms listed below, the host list is
normally configured to be the empty list, so that only authorized
programs can connect to the display.   See the GRANTING ACCESS section of
the \fIXserver\fP man page for details on how this list is initialized at
server startup.
.IP "MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1"
When using MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1,
the client sends a 128 bit "cookie"
along with the connection setup information.
If the cookie presented by the client matches one
that the X server has, the connection is allowed access.
The cookie is chosen so that it is hard to guess;
\fIxdm\fP generates such cookies automatically when this form of
access control is used.
The user's copy of
the cookie is usually stored in the \fI.Xauthority\fP file in the home
directory, although the environment variable \fBXAUTHORITY\fP can be used
to specify an alternate location.
\fIXdm\fP automatically passes a cookie to the server for each new
login session, and stores the cookie in the user file at login.
.IP
The cookie is transmitted on the network without encryption, so
there is nothing to prevent a network snooper from obtaining the data
and using it to gain access to the X server.  This system is useful in an
environment where many users are running applications on the same machine
and want to avoid interference from each other, with the caveat that this
control is only as good as the access control to the physical network.
In environments where network-level snooping is difficult, this system
can work reasonably well.
.IP "XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1"
Sites who compile with DES support can use a DES-based access control
mechanism called XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1.
It is similar in usage to MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 in that a key is
stored in the \fI.Xauthority\fP file and is shared with the X server.
However,
this key consists of two parts - a 56 bit DES encryption key and 64 bits of
random data used as the authenticator.
.IP
When connecting to the X server, the application generates 192 bits of data
by combining the current time in seconds (since 00:00 1/1/1970 GMT) along
with 48 bits of "identifier".  For TCP/IPv4 connections, the identifier is
the address plus port number; for local connections it is the process ID
and 32 bits to form a unique id (in case multiple connections to the same
server are made from a single process).  This 192 bit packet is then
encrypted using the DES key and sent to the X server, which is able to
verify if the requestor is authorized to connect by decrypting with the
same DES key and validating the authenticator and additional data.
This system is useful in many environments where host-based access control
is inappropriate and where network security cannot be ensured.
.IP "SUN-DES-1"
Recent versions of SunOS (and some other systems) have included a
secure public key remote procedure call system.  This system is based
on the notion of a network principal; a user name and NIS domain pair.
Using this system, the X server can securely discover the actual user
name of the requesting process.  It involves encrypting data with the
X server's public key, and so the identity of the user who started the
X server is needed for this; this identity is stored in the \fI.Xauthority\fP
file.  By extending the semantics of "host address" to include this notion of
network principal, this form of access control is very easy to use.
.IP
To allow access by a new user, use \fIxhost\fP.  For example,
.nf
    xhost keith@ ruth@mit.edu
.fi
adds "keith" from the NIS domain of the local machine, and "ruth" in
the "mit.edu" NIS domain.  For keith or ruth to successfully connect
to the display, they must add the principal who started the server to
their \fI.Xauthority\fP file.  For example:
.nf
    xauth add expo.lcs.mit.edu:0 SUN-DES-1 unix.expo.lcs.mit.edu@our.domain.edu
.fi
This system only works on machines which support Secure RPC, and only for
users which have set up the appropriate public/private key pairs on their
system.  See the Secure RPC documentation for details.
To access the display from a remote host, you may have to do a
\fIkeylogin\fP on the remote host first.
.IP MIT-KERBEROS-5
Kerberos is a network-based authentication scheme developed by MIT for
Project Athena.  It allows mutually suspicious principals to
authenticate each other as long as each trusts a third party,
Kerberos.  Each principal has a secret key known only to it and
Kerberos.  Principals includes servers, such as an FTP server or X
server, and human users, whose key is their password.  Users gain
access to services by getting Kerberos tickets for those services from
a Kerberos server.  Since the X server has no place to store a secret
key, it shares keys with the user who logs in.  X authentication thus
uses the user-to-user scheme of Kerberos version 5.
.IP
When you log in via \fIxdm\fP, \fIxdm\fP will use your password to
obtain the initial Kerberos tickets.  \fIxdm\fP stores the tickets in
a credentials cache file and sets the environment variable
\fIKRB5CCNAME\fP to point to the file.  The credentials cache is
destroyed when the session ends to reduce the chance of the tickets
being stolen before they expire.
.IP
Since Kerberos is a user-based authorization protocol, like the
SUN-DES-1 protocol, the owner of a display can enable
and disable specific users, or Kerberos principals.
The \fIxhost\fP client is used to enable or disable authorization.
For example,
.nf
    xhost krb5:judy krb5:gildea@x.org
.fi
adds "judy" from the Kerberos realm of the local machine, and "gildea"
from the "x.org" realm.
.IP "Server Interpreted"
The Server Interpreted method provides two strings to the X server for
entry in the access control list.  The first string represents the type 
of entry, and the second string contains the value of the entry.  These
strings are interpreted by the server and different implementations and
builds may support different types of entries.  The types supported in
the sample implementation are defined in the SERVER INTERPRETED ACCESS
TYPES section below.   Entries of this type can be manipulated via
\fIxhost\fP.  For example to add a Server Interpreted entry of type
localuser with a value of root, the command is \fBxhost +si:localuser:root\fP.
.SH "THE AUTHORIZATION FILE"
.PP
Except for Host Access control and Server Interpreted Access Control, each of 
these systems uses data stored in
the \fI.Xauthority\fP file to generate the correct authorization information
to pass along to the X server at connection setup.  MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 and
XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1 store secret data in the file; so anyone who can read
the file can gain access to the X server.  SUN-DES-1 stores only the
identity of the principal who started the server
(unix.\fIhostname\fP@\fIdomain\fP when the server is started by \fIxdm\fP),
and so it is not useful to anyone not authorized to connect to the server.
.PP
Each entry in the \fI.Xauthority\fP file matches a certain connection family
(TCP/IP, DECnet or local connections) and X display name (hostname plus display
number).  This allows multiple authorization entries for different displays
to share the same data file.  A special connection family (FamilyWild, value
65535) causes an entry to match every display, allowing the entry to be used
for all connections.  Each entry additionally contains the authorization
name and whatever private authorization data is needed by that authorization
type to generate the correct information at connection setup time.
.PP
The \fIxauth\fP program manipulates the \fI.Xauthority\fP file format.
It understands the semantics of the connection families and address formats,
displaying them in an easy to understand format.  It also understands that
SUN-DES-1 and MIT-KERBEROS-5 use
string values for the authorization data, and displays
them appropriately.
.PP
The X server (when running on a workstation) reads authorization
information from a file name passed on the command line with the \fI\-auth\fP
option (see the \fIXserver\fP manual page).  The authorization entries in
the file are used to control access to the server.  In each of the
authorization schemes listed above, the data needed by the server to initialize
an authorization scheme is identical to the data needed by the client to
generate the appropriate authorization information, so the same file can be
used by both processes.  This is especially useful when \fIxinit\fP is used.
.IP "MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1"
This system uses 128 bits of data shared between the user and the X server.
Any collection of bits can be used.  \fIXdm\fP generates these keys using a
cryptographically secure pseudo random number generator, and so the key to
the next session cannot be computed from the current session key.
.IP "XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1"
This system uses two pieces of information.  First, 64 bits of random data,
second a 56 bit DES encryption key (again, random data) stored
in 8 bytes, the last byte of which is ignored.  \fIXdm\fP generates these keys
using the same random number generator as is used for MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1.
.IP "SUN-DES-1"
This system needs a string representation of the principal which identifies
the associated X server.
This information is used to encrypt the client's authority information
when it is sent to the X server.
When \fIxdm\fP starts the X server, it uses the root
principal for the machine on which it is running
(unix.\fIhostname\fP@\fIdomain\fP, e.g.,
"unix.expire.lcs.mit.edu@our.domain.edu").  Putting the correct principal
name in the \fI.Xauthority\fP file causes Xlib to generate the appropriate
authorization information using the secure RPC library.
.IP "MIT-KERBEROS-5"
Kerberos reads tickets from the cache pointed to by the
\fIKRB5CCNAME\fP environment variable, so does not use any data from
the \fI.Xauthority\fP file.  An entry with no data must still exist to tell
clients that MIT-KERBEROS-5 is available.
.IP
Unlike the \fI.Xauthority\fP file for clients, the authority file
passed by xdm to 
a local X server (with ``\fB\-auth\fP \fIfilename\fP'', see xdm(1))
does contain the name of the credentials cache, since 
the X server will not have the 
\fIKRB5CCNAME\fP environment variable set.
The data of the MIT-KERBEROS-5 entry is the credentials cache name and
has the form ``UU:FILE:\fIfilename\fP'', where \fIfilename\fP is the
name of the credentials cache file created by xdm.  Note again that
this form is \fInot\fP used by clients.
.SH "SERVER INTERPRETED ACCESS TYPES"
The sample implementation includes several Server Interpreted mechanisms:
.nf
.br
.ta 3.4i
    IPv6	IPv6 literal addresses
    hostname	Network host name
    localuser	Local connection user id
    localgroup	Local connection group id
.fi
.IP "IPv6"
A literal IPv6 address as defined in IETF RFC 3513.
.IP "hostname"
The value must be a hostname as defined in IETF RFC 2396. Due to Mobile IP
and dynamic DNS, the name service is consulted at connection
authentication time, unlike the traditional host access control list
which only contains numeric addresses and does not automatically update when
a host's address changes.  Note that this definition of hostname does
not allow use of literal IP addresses.
.IP "localuser & localgroup"
On systems which can determine in a secure fashion the credentials of a client
process, the "localuser" and "localgroup" authentication methods provide access
based on those credentials.  The format of the values provided is platform
specific.  For POSIX & UNIX platforms, if the value starts with the 
character '#', the rest of the string is treated as a decimal uid or gid, 
otherwise the string is defined as a user name or group name.
.IP
If your system supports this method and you use it, be warned that some
programs that proxy connections and are setuid or setgid may get authenticated 
as the uid or gid of the proxy process.  For instance, some versions of ssh
will be authenticated as the user root, no matter what user is running the
ssh client, so on systems with such software, adding access for localuser:root
may allow wider access than intended to the X display.
.SH FILES
\&.Xauthority
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(__miscmansuffix__), xdm(1), xauth(1), xhost(1), xinit(1), Xserver(1)
