.\" $Xorg: XProjectTeam.cpp,v 1.6 2001/01/29 17:44:41 coskrey Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994, 1996  X Consortium
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, 2000 The Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF 
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not 
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other 
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the 
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/general/XProjectTeam.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:20:38 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH XORG __miscmansuffix__ __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
X.Org, XProjectTeam \- X.Org Group information
.SH SYNOPSIS
Release 6.5 and 6.6 of X Version 11 was brought to you by The X.Org Group.
Release 6.4 of X Version 11 was brought to you by The X Project Team.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Open Group's X Project Team was created as the successor 
to the X Consortium, Inc., after the X Consortium ceased operations and
transferred ownership of X11 to The Open Group. The X.Org Group 
(hereinafter called "X.Org") was created as the successor to The X Project 
Team after the The Open Group ceased operating The X Project Team. The 
purpose of X.Org was to foster development, evolution, and maintenance of 
the X Window System.  X.Org operates under the corporate umbrella of The 
Open Group.
.PP
The X Consortium was an independent, not-for-profit Delaware membership
corporation.  It was formed in 1993 as the successor to the MIT X 
Consortium.
.PP
The X Window System was created in the mid-1980s at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.  In 1988, MIT formed a member-funded consortium 
to provide the technical and administrative leadership necessary to 
support further development of the X Window System.  In 1992, MIT and 
the membership decided it was in their best interests to move the 
consortium out of MIT and create an independent, stand-alone organization.  
All rights to the X Window System were assigned by MIT to X Consortium, 
Inc. on January 1, 1994.  On December 31, 1996 the X Consortium, Inc. 
closed its doors and all rights to the X Window System were assigned to 
The Open Group.
.PP
.SH "ADDRESS"
To reach The Open Group public World Wide Web server, use
http://www.opengroup.org/.
.PP
To reach The X.Org public World Wide Web server, use
http://www.x.org/.
.PP
To reach The X.Org public ftp machine, use anonymous ftp at
ftp://ftp.x.org/

.SH "FULL MEMBERS"

.nf
Attachmate
Barco
Compaq
Hewlett-Packard
Hummingbird
IBM
ICS
Metro Link
MITRE
Shiman Associates
Silicon Graphics Incorporated
Starnet Communications
Sun Microsystems
The XFree86 Project
US Navy
WRQ
Xi Graphics
.fi
