.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/input/elographics/elographics.man,v 1.1 2001/01/24 00:06:36 dawes Exp $
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH elographics __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
elographics \- Elographics input driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "Section \*qInputDevice\*q"
.br
.BI "  Identifier \*q" idevname \*q
.br
.B  "  Driver \*qelographics\*q"
.br
.BI "  Option \*qDevice\*q   \*q" devpath \*q
.br
\ \ ...
.br
.B EndSection
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B elographics 
is an __xservername__ input driver for Elographics touchscreen devices.
.PP
The
.B elographics
driver functions as a pointer input device, and may be used as the
X server's core pointer.
.SH "SUPPORTED HARDWARE"
E271\-2210 and E271\-2200 devices are supported.
E281\-2310 and compatible devices are supported with some features
unavailable.
.SH "CONFIGURATION DETAILS"
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details and for options that can be used with all input drivers.  This
section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.
.PP
The following driver options are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDevice\*q \*q" string \*q
The device that is attached to the touchscreen interface. Default is
"/dev/ttyS1".
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDeviceName\*q \*q" string \*q
Set the X11 device name for the touchscreen. Default is "TOUCHSCREEN".
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMinX\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set the minimum value for the touchscreen X axis. Default is 600.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMaxX\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set the maximum value for the touchscreen X axis. Default is 3000.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMinY\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set the minimum value for the touchscreen Y axis. Default is 600.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMaxY\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set the maximum value for the touchscreen Y axis. Default is 3000.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qScreenNo\*q \*q" integer \*q
The screen to attach to the touchscreen when running with multiple screens.
Default is screen 0.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPortraitMode\*q \*q" string \*q
Set the X/Y axis orientation. The default is "Landscape"
but you can rotate clockwise ("Portrait") or
counter\-clockwise ("PortraitCCW").
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSwapXY\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Swap the X and Y axis on the display. Default is false.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qUntouchDelay\*q \*q" integer \*q
The period that finger must be released for an untouch
event to occur. Default: 5 (50ms).
.TP
.BI "Option \*qReportDelay\*q \*q" integer \*q
Delay between report packets. Default: 1 (10ms).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(__appmansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__).
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include:
 Patrick Lecoanet
.PP
This manpage was written by Lee Maguire on behalf of the Debian Project.
