.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/input/jamstudio/js_x.man,v 1.1 2002/11/11 01:18:08 alanh Exp $ 
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH JS_X __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
js_x \- JamStudio input driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qInputDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q" devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qjs_x\*q"
.BI "  Option \*qDevice\*q   \*q" devpath \*q
.BI "  Option \*qMaxX\*q  \*q" int \*q
.BI "  Option \*qMaxY\*q  \*q" int \*q
.BI "  Option \*qMinX\*q  \*q" int \*q
.BI "  Option \*qMinY\*q  \*q" int \*q
.BI "  Option \*qPressMax\*q  \*q" int \*q
.BI "  Option \*qPressMin\*q  \*q" int \*q
.BI "  Option \*qPressDiv\*q  \*q" int \*q
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B js_x 
is an __xservername__ input driver for JamStudio devices.
.PP
The
.B js_x 
driver functions as a pointer input device, and may be used as the
X server's core pointer.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This driver supports the KB-Gear JamStudio pentablet.
This X-Input driver should work on any OS supporting the hiddev raw USB HID driver.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details and for options that can be used with all input drivers.  This
section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.
.RS 8
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Device"\fP \fI"path"\fP
sets the path to the raw HID device to which the tablet was assigned.
This option is mandatory.
.TP
.B Option \fI"MinX"\fP \fI"int"\fP
.TP
.B Option \fI"MaxX"\fP \fI"int"\fP
.TP
.B Option \fI"MinY"\fP \fI"int"\fP
.TP
.B Option \fI"MaxY"\fP \fI"int"\fP
sets the minimum and maximum values returned for the absolute X,Y axis of the pen tablet. These values default to 0-8000 for X and 0-6000 for Y. It should generally be safe to leave these values untouched.
.TP
.B Option \fI"PressMin\fP \fI"int"\fP
.TP
.B Option \fI"PressMax\fP \fI"int"\fP
sets the minimum and maximum values returned for the pressure sensitive tip. These values default to 0-127. It should generally be safe to leave these values untouched.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"PressDiv"\fP \fI"int"\fP
sets the divider for the returned pressure value. This option will allow you to return a smaller set of values for the pressure sensitive tip allowing for finer control. The returned value is computed as follows:
.RS
.TP
\fIX / PressDiv = returned value\fP
where X equals the value read from the tablet.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(__appmansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__).
.SH AUTHORS
Brian Goines <bgoines78@comcast.net>
