.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/drivers/i810/i810.man,v 1.5 2003/10/18 02:27:07 dawes Exp $ 
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH I810 __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
i810 \- Intel 8xx integrated graphics chipsets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qi810\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B i810
is an __xservername__ driver for Intel integrated graphics chipsets.
The driver supports depths 8, 15, 16 and 24.  All visual types are
supported in depth 8.  For the i810/i815 other depths support the
TrueColor and DirectColor visuals.  For the 830M and later, only the
TrueColor visual is supported for depths greater than 8.  The driver
supports hardware accelerated 3D via the Direct Rendering Infrastructure
(DRI), but only in depth 16 for the i810/i815 and depths 16 and 24 for
the 830M and later.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
.B i810
supports the i810, i810-DC100, i810e, i815, 830M, 845G, 852GM, 855GM,
865G, 915G and 915GM chipsets.

.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The Intel 8xx family of integrated graphics chipsets has a unified memory
architecture and uses system memory for video ram.  For the i810 and
i815 family of chipset, operating system support for allocating system
memory for video use is required in order to use this driver.  For the
830M and later, this is required in order for the driver to use more
video ram than has been pre-allocated at boot time by the BIOS.  This
is usually achieved with an "agpgart" or "agp" kernel driver.  Linux,
and recent versions of FreeBSD, OpenBSD and NetBSD have such kernel
drivers available.
.PP
By default 8 Megabytes
of system memory are used for graphics.  For the 830M and later, the
default is 8 Megabytes when DRI is not enabled and 32 Megabytes with
DRI is enabled.  This amount may be changed with the
.B VideoRam
entry in the config file
.B "Device"
section.  It may be set to any reasonable value up to 64MB for older
chipsets or 128MB for newer chipets.  It is advisable to check the
__xservername__
log file to check if any features have been disabled because of insufficient
video memory.  In particular, DRI support or tiling mode may be disabled
with insufficient video memory.  Either of these being disabled will
reduce performance for 3D applications.  Note however, that increasing
this value too much will reduce the amount of system memory available
for other applications.
.PP
The driver makes use of the video BIOS to program video modes for the 830M
and later.  This limits the video modes that can be used to those provided
by the video BIOS, and to those that will fit into the amount of video memory
that the video BIOS is aware of.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable acceleration.  Default: acceleration is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable software cursor.  Default: software cursor is disable
and a hardware cursor is used for configurations where the hardware cursor
is available.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qColorKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
This sets the default pixel value for the YUV video overlay key.
Default: undefined.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qCacheLines\*q \*q" integer \*q
This allows the user to change the amount of graphics memory used for
2D acceleration and video.  Decreasing this amount leaves more for 3D
textures.  Increasing it can improve 2D performance at the expense of
3D performance.
Default: depends on the resolution, depth, and available video memory.  The
driver attempts to allocate at least enough to hold two DVD-sized YUV buffers
by default.  The default used for a specific configuration can be found
by examining the __xservername__ log file.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDRI\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable DRI support.
Default: DRI is enabled for configurations where it is supported.

.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported for the i810 and i815 chipsets:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDDC\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable DDC support.
Default: enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDac6Bit\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable 6-bits per RGB for 8-bit modes.
Default: 8-bits per RGB for 8-bit modes.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qXvMCSurfaces\*q \*q" integer \*q
This option enables XvMC.  The integer parameter specifies the number of
surfaces to use.  Valid values are 6 and 7.
Default: XvMC is disabled.

.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported for the 830M and later chipsets:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qVBERestore\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable the use of VBE save/restore for saving and restoring
the initial text mode.  This is disabled by default because it causes
lockups on some platforms.  However, there are some cases where it must
enabled for the correct restoration of the initial video mode.  If you are
having a problem with that, try enabling this option.  Default: Disabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qVideoKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
This is the same as the
.B \*qColorKey\*q
option described above.  It is provided for compatibility with most
other drivers.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qXVideo\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable XVideo support.
Default: XVideo is enabled for configurations where it is supported.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMonitorLayout\*q \*q" anystr \*q
Allow different monitor configurations. e.g. \*qCRT,LFP\*q will 
configure a CRT on Pipe A and an LFP on Pipe B. Regardless of the 
primary heads' pipe it is always configured as \*q<PIPEA>,<PIPEB>\*q. 
Additionally you can add different configurations such as 
\*qCRT+DFP,LFP\*q which would put a digital flat panel and a CRT 
on pipe A, and a local flat panel on pipe B.
For single pipe configurations you can just specify the monitors types
on Pipe A, such as \*qCRT+DFP\*q which will enable the CRT and DFP
on Pipe A.
Valid monitors are CRT, LFP, DFP, TV, CRT2, LFP2, DFP2, TV2 and NONE.
NOTE: Some configurations of monitor types may fail, this depends on
the Video BIOS and system configuration.
Default: Not configured, and will use the current head's pipe and monitor.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qClone\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable Clone mode on pipe B. This will setup the second head as a complete
mirror of the monitor attached to pipe A. 
NOTE: Video overlay functions will not work on the second head in this mode.
If you require this, then use the MonitorLayout above and do (as an example)
\*qCRT+DFP,NONE\*q to configure both a CRT and DFP on Pipe A to achieve
local mirroring and disable the use of this option.
Default: Clone mode on pipe B is disabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qCloneRefresh\*q \*q" integer \*q
When the Clone option is specified we can drive the second monitor at a
different refresh rate than the primary. 
Default: 60Hz.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qCheckLid\*q \*q" boolean \*q
On mobile platforms it's desirable to monitor the lid status and switch
the outputs accordingly when the lid is opened or closed. By default this
option is on, but may incur a very minor performance penalty as we need
to poll a register on the card to check for this activity. It can be
turned off using this option. This only works with the 830M, 852GM and 855GM
systems.
Default: enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qFlipPrimary\*q \*q" boolean \*q
When using a dual pipe system, it may be preferable to switch the primary
screen to the alternate pipe to display on the other monitor connection.
NOTE: Using this option may cause text mode to be restored incorrectly,
and thus should be used with caution.
Default: disabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDisplayInfo\*q \*q" boolean \*q
It has been found that a certain BIOS call can lockup the Xserver because
of a problem in the Video BIOS. The log file will identify if you are
suffering from this problem and tell you to turn this option off.
Default: enabled
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDevicePresence\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Tell the driver to perform an active detect of the currently connected
monitors. This option is useful if the monitor was not connected when
the machine has booted, but unfortunately it doesn't always work and
is extremely dependent upon the Video BIOS.
Default: disabled
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*qCW\*q"
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*qCCW\*q"
Rotate the desktop 90 degrees clockwise or counterclockwise.  This option 
forces the ShadowFB option on, and disables acceleration.
Default: no rotation.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer.  This option
disables acceleration.  Default: off.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(__appmansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Keith Whitwell, and also Jonathan Bian, Matthew J Sottek, 
Jeff Hartmann, Mark Vojkovich, Alan Hourihane, H. J. Lu.  830M and 845G
support reworked for XFree86 4.3 by David Dawes and Keith Whitwell.
852GM, 855GM, and 865G support added by David Dawes and Keith Whitwell.
915G and 915GM support added by Alan Hourihane and Keith Whitwell.
Dual Head, Clone and lid status support added by Alan Hourihane.
