.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  The Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.TH XKILL 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
xkill - kill a client by its X resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xkill"
[\-display \fIdisplayname\fP] [\-id \fIresource\fP] [\-button number] [\-frame] [\-all] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xkill
is a utility for forcing the X server to close connections to clients.  This
program is very dangerous, but is useful for aborting programs that have 
displayed undesired windows on a user's screen.  If no resource identifier
is given with \fI-id\fP, \fIxkill\fP will display a special cursor
as a prompt for the user to select a window to be killed.  If a pointer button
is pressed over a non-root window, the server will close its connection to
the client that created the window.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplayname\fP
This option specifies the name of the X server to contact.
.TP 8
.B \-id \fIresource\fP
This option specifies the X identifier for the resource whose creator is
to be aborted.  If no resource is specified, \fIxkill\fP will display a 
special cursor with which you should select a window to be kill.
.TP 8
.B \-button \fInumber\fP
This option specifies the number of pointer button
that should be used in selecting a window to kill.  
If the word "any" is specified, any button on the pointer may be used.  By
default, the first button in the pointer map (which is usually the leftmost
button) is used.
.TP 8
.B \-all
This option indicates that all clients with top-level windows on the screen
should be killed.  \fIXkill\fP will ask you to select the root window with 
each of the currently defined buttons to give you several chances to abort.
Use of this option is highly discouraged.
.TP 8
.B \-frame
This option indicates that xkill should ignore the standard conventions for
finding top-level client windows (which are typically nested inside a window
manager window), and simply believe that you want to kill direct children of
the root.
.SH CAVEATS
This command does not provide any warranty that the application whose
connection to the X server is closed will abort nicely, or even abort
at all. All this command does is to close the connection to the X
server. Many existing applications do indeed abort when their
connection to the X server is closed, but some can choose to
continue.
.SH XDEFAULTS
.TP 8
.B Button
Specifies a specific pointer button number or the word "any" to use when 
selecting windows.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(__miscmansuffix__), xwininfo(1), XKillClient and XGetPointerMapping in the Xlib Programmers 
Manual, KillClient in the X Protocol Specification
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
.br
Dana Chee, Bellcore
