'\"! eqn | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 6 March 1997
.ds Re Release 1.2.0
.ds Dp Feb 16 02:56
.ds Dm  Feb 10 17:2
.ds Xs 51469 3 xquerycontextinfoext.gl
.TH GLXQUERYCONTEXTINFOEXT
.SH NAME
glXQueryContextInfoEXT
\- query context information

.SH C SPECIFICATION
int \f3glXQueryContextInfoEXT\fP(
Display \fI*dpy\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3int \fPglXQueryContextInfoEXT( 'u
	GLXContext \fIctx\fP,
	int \fIattribute\fP,
	int \fI*value\fP )
.fi

.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIattribute\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2dpy\fP
Specifies the connection to the X server.

.TP
\f2ctx\fP
Specifies a GLX rendering context.

.TP
\f2attribute\fP
The visual ID that the context was created with.

.TP
\f2value\fP
The X screen the the context was created for.

.TP
_param5
The context with which this context shares display lists.
or \f3NULL\fP if this context does not share display lists.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\f3glXQueryContextInfoEXT\fP  returns the the visual id, screen number, and share list 
of \f2ctx\fP. This call may cause a round trip to the server.
.P
\f3glXQueryContextInfoEXT\fP is part of the \f3EXT_import_context\fP extension,
not part of the core GLX command set. If \f3GLX_EXT_import_context\fP
is included in the string returned by \f3glXQueryExtensionsString\fP,
when called with argument \f3GLX_EXTENSIONS\fP,
extension \f3EXT_import_context\fP is supported.

.SH ERRORS
\f3GLXBadContext\fP is generated if \f2ctx\fP does not
refer to a valid context.

.SH SEE ALSO
\f3glXCreateContext\fP,
\f3glXQueryVersion\fP,
\f3glXQueryExtensionsString\fP

