.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/input/mutouch/mutouch.man,v 1.1 2001/01/24 00:06:37 dawes Exp $
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH PALMAX __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
palmax \- Palmax (TR88L803) touchscreen driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "Section \*qInputDevice\*q"
.br
.BI "  Identifier \*q" idevname \*q
.br
.B  "  Driver \*qpalmax\*q"
.br
.BI "  Option \*qDevice\*q   \*q" devpath \*q
.br
\ \ ...
.br
.B EndSection
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B palmax
is an __xservername__ input driver for the Palmax PD1000/PD1100
.PP
The
.B palmax
driver functions as a pointer input device, and is normally used as the
X server's core pointer. It supports positioning and mouse buttons using 
the touchscreen display and lid buttons on the Palmax machines.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
Palmax PD1000, Palmax PD1100. In theory also any other system using a
TR88L803 wired to a serial port.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details and for options that can be used with all input drivers.  This
section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.
.PP
The following driver
.B options
are supported
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMinX\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set the left hand X value from the touchscreen, for calibration.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMaxX\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set the right hand X value from the touchscreen, for calibration.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMinY\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set the top Y value from the touchscreen, for calibration.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMaxY\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set the bottom Y value from the touchscreen, for calibration.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qScreen\*q \*q" integer \*q
The screen to attach to the touchscreen when running with multiple screens. 
The default is screen 0.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDevice\*q \*q" string \*q
The serial port that is attached to the touchscreen interface. On the Palmax
PD1000 and PD1100 this is ttyS0.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDeviceName\*q \*q" string \*q
Set the X11 device name for the touchscreen. This defaults to TOUCHSCREEN.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPortraitMode\*q \*q" string \*q
Set the display orientation. The default is "landscape" but you can rotate
the screen clockwise ("portrait") or anticlockwise ("portraitCCW").
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSwapXY\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Swap the X and Y values on the display. The default is false.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTapButton\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Set the touchscreen tap to act as mouse button 1. This allows single handed
operation except when using the menu buttons. The default is false.
.SH "BUGS"
The driver has been tested on the Palmax systems, the defaults reflect the
Palmax hardware and should work out of the box. No testing has been done on
other systems using the same digitizer.
.PP
Support for a double-tap menu button option would be nice.
.PP
The smoothing algorithm would benefit from real mathematics.
.PP
__xservername__ needs a nice calibration tool.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(__appmansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__).
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include...
 Alan Cox
