.\" $Xorg: xwud.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:06:04 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  The Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xwud/xwud.man,v 1.9 2002/04/22 20:53:11 herrb Exp $
.\"
.TH XWUD 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
xwud - image displayer for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xwud"
[\-in \fIfile\fP] [\-noclick] [\-geometry \fIgeom\fP] [\-display \fIdisplay\fP]
[\-new] [\-std <maptype>] [\-raw] [\-vis <vis-type-or-id>] [\-scale]
[\-help] [\-rv] [\-plane \fInumber\fP] [\-fg \fIcolor\fP] [\-bg \fIcolor\fP]
[\-dumpheader]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xwud
is an X Window System image undumping utility.
.I Xwud
allows X users to display in a window an image saved
in a specially formatted dump file, such as produced by \fIxwd(1)\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-bg \fIcolor\fP"
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
can be used to specify the color to display for the "0" bits in the image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-display \fIdisplay\fP"
This option allows you to specify the server to connect to; see \fIX(__miscmansuffix__)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-dumpheader
This option prints out the XWD header information only.  Nothing is displayed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-fg \fIcolor\fP"
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
can be used to specify the color to display for the "1" bits in the image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-geometry \fIgeom\fP"
This option allows you to specify the size and position of the window.
Typically you will only want to specify the position, and let the size
default to the actual size of the image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-help"
Print out a short description of the allowable options.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-in \fIfile\fP"
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the input 
file on the command line.  If no input file is given, the standard input
is assumed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-new
This option forces creation of a new colormap for displaying the image.
If the image characteristics happen to match those of the display, this
can get the image on the screen faster, but at the cost of using a new
colormap (which on most displays will cause other windows to go
technicolor).
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-noclick"
Clicking any button in the window will terminate the application,
unless this option is specified.  Termination can always be achieved
by typing 'q', 'Q', or ctrl-c.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-plane \fInumber\fP"
You can select a single bit plane of the image to display
with this option.  Planes are numbered with zero being the least
significant bit.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-raw
This option forces the image to be displayed with whatever color values
happen to currently exist on the screen.  This option is mostly useful when
undumping an image back onto the same screen that the image originally
came from, while the original windows are still on the screen, and results
in getting the image on the screen faster.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-rv
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
forces the foreground and background colors to be swapped.  This may be
needed when displaying a bitmap image which has the color sense of pixel
values "0" and "1" reversed from what they are on your display.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-scale
Allow the window to be resized, and scale the image to the size of the window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-std \fImaptype\fP"
This option causes the image to be displayed using the specified
Standard Colormap.  The property name is obtained by converting the
type to upper case, prepending "RGB_", and appending "_MAP".
Typical types are "best", "default", and "gray".  See \fIxstdcmap(1)\fP
for one way of creating Standard Colormaps.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-vis \fIvis-type-or-id\fP"
This option allows you to specify a particular visual or visual class.
The default is to pick the "best" one.  A particular class can be
specified: "StaticGray", "GrayScale", "StaticColor", "PseudoColor",
"DirectColor", or "TrueColor".  Or "Match" can be specified, meaning
use the same class as the source image.  Alternatively, an exact
visual id (specific to the server) can be specified, either as a
hexadecimal number (prefixed with "0x") or as a decimal number.
Finally, "default" can be specified, meaning to use the same class
as the colormap of the root window.  Case is not significant in
any of these strings.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get default display.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B XWDFile.h
X Window Dump File format definition file.
.SH BUGS
xwud doesn't handle big/deep images very well on servers that don't 
have the BIG-REQUESTS extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
xwd(1), xstdcmap(1), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHOR
Bob Scheifler, MIT X Consortium


