.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/Xi/XDevBell.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:20:21 dawes Exp $
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright ([\d,\s]*) by Hewlett-Packard Company, Ardent Computer, 
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this documentation 
.\" for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\" Ardent, and Hewlett-Packard make no representations about the 
.\" suitability for any purpose of the information in this document.  It is 
.\" provided \`\`as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $Xorg: XDevBell.man,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:41:56 cpqbld Exp $
.ds xL Programming With Xlib
.TH XDeviceBell __LIB_MAN_SUFFIX__ __xorgversion__ "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XDeviceBell \- ring a bell on a device supported through the input extension
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XDeviceBell\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XDevice *\fIdevice\fP\^, XID
*\fIfeedbackclass\fP\^, XID *\fIfeedbackid\fP\^, int *\fIpercent\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.I display
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.TP 12
.I device
Specifies the device with which the bell is associated.
.TP 12
.I feedbackclass
Specifies the class of the feedback with which the bell is associated.
.TP 12
.I feedbackid
Specifies the id of the feedback with which the bell is associated.
.TP 12
.I percent
Specifies the volume in the range -100 to 100 at which the bell should be rung.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIXDeviceBell\fP request causes the server to ring a bell on the 
specified feedback of the specified device, if possible.  
The specified volume is relative to the base volume for the bell.
If an invalid device is specified,
a \fIBadDevice\fP error will be returned.  The feedbackclass and feedbackid
parameters contain values returned by an \fIXGetFeedbackControl\fP request
and uniquely identify the bell to ring.  If a feedbackclass is specified that
does not support a bell, or if a nonexistent feedbackid is specified,
or a percent value is specified that is not in the range -100 to 100,
a \fIBadValue\fP error will be returned.
.LP
The volume at which the bell is rung when the percent argument is 
nonnegative is:
.IP
base \- [(base * percent) / 100] + percent
.LP
The volume at which the bell rings
when the percent argument is negative is:
.IP
base + [(base * percent) / 100]
.LP
To change the base volume of the bell, use \fIXChangeFeedbackControl\fP.
.LP
\fIXDeviceBell\fP can generate a \fIBadDevice\fP or a \fIBadValue\fP
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 12
\fIBadDevice\fP
An invalid device was specified.  The specified device does not exist, or has 
not been opened by this client via \fIXOpenInputDevice\fP.
.TP 12
\fIBadValue\fP
An invalid feedbackclass, feedbackid, or percent value was specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeFeedbackControl(3),
XBell(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
