.\" $Xorg: fslsfonts.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:30 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991, Network Computing Devices, Inc
.\" Copyright 1993, 1994, 1998  The Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/fslsfonts/fslsfonts.man,v 1.6 2001/01/27 18:21:01 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH FSLSFONTS 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
fslsfonts \- list fonts served by X font server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fslsfonts
[\-options ...] [\-fn pattern]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I fslsfonts
lists the fonts that match the given \fIpattern\fP.
The wildcard character "*" may be used to match any sequence of
characters (including none), and "?" to match any single character.
If no pattern is given, "*" is assumed.
.PP
The "*" and "?" characters must be quoted to prevent them from
being expanded by the shell.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-server \fIservername\fP
This option specifies the X font server to contact.
.I servername 
must be specified in one of the formats defined in the
.I Font Server Names
section of X(__miscmansuffix__).   If not specified, the server name in the
.B FONTSERVER
environment variable is used.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-l
Lists some attributes of the font on one line in addition to its name.
.TP 8
.B \-ll
Lists font properties in addition to \fB\-l\fP output.
.TP 8
.B \-lll
Supported for compatibility with \fIxlsfonts\fP, but output is the
same as for \fB\-ll\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-m
This option indicates that long listings should also print the minimum and
maximum bounds of each font.
.TP 8
.B \-C
This option indicates that listings should use multiple columns.  This is the
same as \fB\-n 0\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-1
This option indicates that listings should use a single column.  This is the
same as \fB\-n 1\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-w \fIwidth\fP
This option specifies the width in characters that should be used in 
figuring out how many columns to print.  The default is 79.
.TP 8
.B \-n \fIcolumns\fP
This option specifies the number of columns to use in displaying the output.
The default is 0, which
will attempt to fit as many columns of font names into the 
number of character specified by \fB\-w\fP \fIwidth\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-u
This option indicates that the output should be left unsorted.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B FONTSERVER
To get the default fontserver.  The server name must
be specified in one of the formats defined in the
.I Font Server Names
section of X(__miscmansuffix__).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xfs(__appmansuffix__), showfont(__appmansuffix__), xlsfonts(__appmansuffix__),
X(__miscmansuffix__).
.SH BUGS
Doing ``fslsfonts \-l'' can tie up your server for a very long time.
This is really a bug with single-threaded non-preemptable servers, not with
this program.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc
