.TH ICO 1 2025-03-22 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
ico \- animate an icosahedron or other polyhedron
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBico\fR [\fB\-display\fR \fIdisplay\fR] [\fB\-geometry\fR \fIgeometry\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fIpattern\fR]
    [\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-dbl\fR] [\fB\-faces\fR] [\fB\-noedges\fR] [\fB\-sleep\fR \fIn\fR] [\fB\-obj\fR \fIobject\fR]
    [\fB\-colors\fR \fIcolor\-list\fR]
.fi
.LP
.B ico
\fB\-help\fR | \fB\-objhelp\fR | \fB\-version\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ico
displays a wire-frame rotating polyhedron, with hidden lines removed,
or a solid-fill polyhedron with hidden faces removed.
There are a number of different polyhedra available;
adding a new polyhedron to the program is quite simple.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-r
Display on the root window instead of creating a new window.
.TP
.B \-d \fIpattern\fP
Specify a bit pattern for drawing dashed lines for wire frames.
.TP
.B \-i
Use inverted colors for wire frames.
.TP
.B \-dbl
Use double buffering on the display.
This works for either wire frame or solid fill drawings.
For solid fill drawings, using this switch results in substantially
smoother movement.
Note that this requires twice as many bit planes as without double buffering.
Since some colors are typically allocated by other programs,
most eight-bit-plane displays will probably be limited to eight colors
when using double buffering.
.TP
.B \-faces
Draw filled faces instead of wire frames.
.TP
.B \-noedges
Don't draw the wire frames.
Typically used only when \fB\-faces\fP is used.
.TP
.B \-sleep \fIn\fP
Sleep \fIn\fP seconds between each move of the object
(the default value is 0.01, ie 10ms).
.TP
.B \-obj \fIobject\fP
Specify what object to draw.
If no object is specified, an icosahedron is drawn.
.TP
.B \-colors \fIcolor color ...\fP
Specify what colors should be used to draw the filled faces of the object.
If less colors than faces are given, the colors are reused.
.TP
.B \-help
Print program usage information and exit.
.TP
.B \-objhelp
Print out a list of the available objects, along with information
about each object, and then exit.
.TP
.B \-version
Print program version information and exit.
.SH PROGRAM TERMINATION
Pressing "q" will close a window. If compiled with threads support, the
program will stop only when all threads terminate. You can also close an
animation window using the ICCCM \fIdelete\fP message (depending on your
window manager, you will have a decoration button or menu to send such
message).
.SH ADDING POLYHEDRA
If you have the source to \fBico\fP, it is very easy to add more polyhedra.
Each polyhedron is defined in an include file by the name of objXXX.h,
where XXX is something related to the name of the polyhedron.
The format of the include file is defined in the file polyinfo.h.
Look at the file objcube.h to see what the exact format of an objXXX.h
file should be, then create your objXXX.h file in that format.
.LP
After making the new objXXX.h file (or copying in a new one from elsewhere),
simply do a 'make depend'.
This will recreate the file allobjs.h, which lists all of the objXXX.h
files.
Doing a 'make' after this will rebuild ico with the new object information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR X (__miscmansuffix__)
.SH BUGS
Pyramids and tetrahedrons with filled faces do not display correctly.
.LP
A separate color cell is allocated for each name in the \fB\-colors\fP list,
even when the same name may be specified twice.
Color allocation fails in TrueColor displays and
option \fB\-faces\fP does not work well.
