.\" $Xorg: rstart.man,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:54:01 cpqbld Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Quarterdeck Office Systems
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name Quarterdeck Office Systems, Inc. not
.\" be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this
.\" software without specific, written prior permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED `AS-IS'.  QUARTERDECK OFFICE SYSTEMS, INC.,
.\" DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING WITHOUT
.\" LIMITATION ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL QUARTERDECK
.\" OFFICE SYSTEMS, INC., BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING
.\" SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF, AND
.\" REGARDLESS OF WHETHER IN AN ACTION IN CONTRACT, TORT OR NEGLIGENCE, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/rstart/rstart.man,v 1.6 2001/01/27 18:21:05 dawes Exp $
.\"
.hy 0		\" I hate hyphenation.
.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.ta .3i .6i .9i 1.2i 1.5i 1.8i
.TH RSTART 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
rstart - a sample implementation of a Remote Start client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "rstart"
[\-c \fIcontext\fP]
[\-g]
[\-l \fIusername\fP]
[\-v]
\fIhostname\fP
\fIcommand args ...\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIRstart\fP is a simple implementation of a Remote Start client as
defined in "A Flexible Remote Execution Protocol Based on \fBrsh\fP".
It uses \fIrsh\fP as its underlying remote execution mechanism.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-c \fIcontext\fP
This option specifies the \fIcontext\fP in which the command is to be
run.  A \fIcontext\fP specifies a general environment the program is to
be run in.  The details of this environment are host-specific; the
intent is that the client need not know how the environment must be
configured.  If omitted, the context defaults to \fBX\fP.  This should
be suitable for running X programs from the host's "usual" X
installation.
.TP 8
.B \-g
Interprets \fIcommand\fP as a \fIgeneric command\fP, as discussed
in the protocol document.  This is intended to allow common applications
to be invoked without knowing what they are called on the remote system.
Currently, the only generic commands defined are \fBTerminal\fP,
\fBLoadMonitor\fP, \fBListContexts\fP, and \fBListGenericCommands\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-l \fIusername\fP
This option is passed to the underlying \fIrsh\fP; it requests that
the command be run as the specified user.
.TP 8
.B \-v
This option requests that \fIrstart\fP be verbose in its operation.
Without this option, \fIrstart\fP discards output from the remote's
\fIrstart\fP helper, and directs the \fIrstart\fP helper to detach
the program from the \fIrsh\fP connection used to start it.  With
this option, responses from the helper are displayed and the resulting
program is not detached from the connection.
.SH NOTES
This is a trivial implementation.  Far more sophisticated implementations
are possible and should be developed.
.PP
Error handling is nonexistent.  Without \fB\-v\fP, error reports from
the remote are discarded silently.  With \fB\-v\fP, error reports are
displayed.
.PP
The $DISPLAY environment variable is passed.  If it starts with a colon,
the local hostname is prepended.  The local domain name should be appended
to unqualified host names, but isn't.
.PP
The $SESSION_MANAGER environment variable should be passed, but isn't.
.PP
X11 authority information is passed for the current display.
.PP
ICE authority information should be passed, but isn't.  It isn't
completely clear how \fIrstart\fP should select what ICE authority
information to pass.
.PP
Even without \fB\-v\fP, the sample \fIrstart\fP helper will leave a
shell waiting for the program to complete.  This causes no real harm
and consumes relatively few resources, but if it is undesirable
it can be avoided by explicitly specifying the "exec" command to the
shell, eg
.EX 0
rstart somehost exec xterm
.EE
This is obviously dependent on the command interpreter being used on
the remote system; the example given will work for the Bourne and C shells.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rstartd(1), rsh(1), A Flexible Remote Execution Protocol Based on \fBrsh\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Jordan Brown, Quarterdeck Office Systems
