.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/drivers/nsc/nsc.man,v 1.1 2002/12/10 15:12:23 alanh Exp $ 
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH NSC __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
nsc \- Nsc video driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qnsc\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nsc
is an __xservername__ driver for National Semiconductors GEODE processor family.
It uses the DURANGO kit provided by National Semiconductor.
The driver is accelerated, and provides support for the following 
framebuffer depths: 8, 16 and 24.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The
.B nsc
driver supports GXLV (5530 companion chip), SC1200, SC1400 and
GX2 (5535 companion chip).
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The driver will auto-detect the amount of video memory present for all
chips. If the amount of memory is detected incorrectly, the actual amount
of video memory should be specified with a
.B VideoRam
entry in the config file
.B \*qDevice\*q
section.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable the SW cursor.  
Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qHWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable the HW cursor.  
Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable acceleration.  
Default: acceleration is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoCompression\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable compression.  
Default: compression is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer.  
Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*qCW\*q"
Rotate the display clockwise. This mode is unaccelerated, and uses
the Shadow Frame Buffer layer.
Default: no rotation.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*qCCW\*q"
Rotate the display counterclockwise. This mode is unaccelerated, and
uses the Shadow Frame Buffer layer.
Default: no rotation.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qFlatPanel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This enables the FlatPanel display unit. The FlatPanel depends on the 
BIOS to do the Panel h/w initialization.
In GX2 based platforms with TFT part Flatpanel is enabled, and on CRT
part is disabled.
Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qOSMImageBuffers\*q \*q" integer \*q
This sets the number of scanline buffers to be allocated in offscreen 
memory for acceleration. This can take any value 0 will disable the 
allocation. Disabled if cannot allocate requested scanline memory.
Default: 20.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qColorKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
This sets the default pixel value for the YUV video overlay key.
Default: 0.
.PP
The following 
.B Options
are supported only on SC1200 based platforms:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTV\*q \*qPAL-768x576\*q"
Selects the PAL TV display mode 768x576 and the depth is forced to 16 bpp.
Default: no TV.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTV\*q \*qPAL-720x576\*q"
Selects the PAL TV display mode 720x576 and the depth is forced to 16 bpp.
Default: no TV.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTV\*q \*qNTSC-720x480\*q"
Selects the NTSC TV display mode 720x480 and the depth is forced to 16 bpp.
Default: no TV.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTV\*q \*qNTSC-640x480\*q"
Selects the NTSC TV display mode 640x480 and the depth is forced to 16 bpp.
Default: no TV.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTV_Output\*q \*qCOMPOSITE\*q"
The selected TV mode output is coded for Composite signal.
Default: no TV.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTV_Output\*q \*qSVIDEO\*q"
The selected TV mode output is coded for SVIDEO signal.
Default: no TV.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTV_Output\*q \*qYUV\*q"
The selected TV mode output is coded for YUV signal.
Default: no TV.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTV_Output\*q \*qSCART\*q"
The selected TV mode output is coded for SCART signal.
Default: no TV.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTVOverscan\*q \*xx:yy:ww:hh\*q"
This option will let only the viewable display area smaller to be able to 
view on TV. The parameters xx: X-offset, yy: Y-offset, ww: Viewable width,
hh: Viewable height.
Default: no TV.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(__appmansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHOR
Author: Sarma V. Kolluru
