.\" Copyright 1994, 1998  The Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.TH SMPROXY 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
smproxy \- Session Manager Proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smproxy
[-clientId id] [-restore saveFile] [-version]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-clientId \fIid\fP
Specifies the session ID used by \fIsmproxy\fP in the previous session.
.TP 8
.B \-restore \fIsaveFile\fP
Specifies the file used by \fIsmproxy\fP to save state in the previous session.
.TP 8
.B \-version
Prints the program version and exits.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIsmproxy\fP allows X applications that do not support X11R6 session
management to participate in an X11R6 session.
.br
.sp
In order for \fIsmproxy\fP to act as a proxy for an X application, one of
the following must be true:
.br
.sp
- The application maps a top level window containing the
\fBWM_CLIENT_LEADER\fR property.  This property provides a pointer to
the client leader window which contains the \fBWM_CLASS\fR, \fBWM_NAME\fR,
\fBWM_COMMAND\fR, and \fBWM_CLIENT_MACHINE\fR properties.
.br
.sp
or ...
.br
.sp
- The application maps a top level window which does not contain the
\fBWM_CLIENT_LEADER\fR property.  However, this top level window
contains the \fBWM_CLASS\fR, \fBWM_NAME\fR, \fBWM_COMMAND\fR, and
\fBWM_CLIENT_MACHINE\fR properties.
.PP
An application that support the \fBWM_SAVE_YOURSELF\fR protocol will receive
a \fBWM_SAVE_YOURSELF\fR client message each time the session manager issues
a checkpoint or shutdown.  This allows the application to save state.  If
an application does not support the \fBWM_SAVE_YOURSELF\fR protocol, then
the proxy will provide enough information to the session manager to restart
the application (using \fBWM_COMMAND\fR), but no state will be restored.
.SH SEE ALSO
xsm(__appmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph Mor, X Consortium

