.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/drivers/tdfx/tdfx.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:20:55 dawes Exp $ 
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH TDFX __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
tdfx \- 3Dfx video driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qtdfx\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tdfx 
is an __xservername__ driver for 3Dfx video cards.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The
.B tdfx
driver supports Voodoo Banshee, Voodoo3, Voodoo4 and Voodoo5 cards.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable acceleration.  Default: acceleration is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable software cursor.  Default: software cursor is disable
and a hardware cursor is used for configurations where the hardware cursor
is available.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDRI\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable DRI support. By default, DRI is on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTexturedVideo\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This has XvImage support use the texture engine rather than the video overlay.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qVideoKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
This sets the default pixel value for the YUV video overlay key.
Default: undefined.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qUsePIO\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Force the use of Programmed IO instead of Memory Mapped IO.
Default: off.
.PP
The following additional
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShowCache\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable viewing offscreen cache memory.  A development debug option.
Default: off.
.SH FILES
tdfx_drv.o
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(__appmansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: ...
