.\" Copyright 1999  by The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\" 
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE XFREE86 PROJECT BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The XFree86 Project shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The XFree86 Project.
.\"
.TH xgamma 1 __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
xgamma - Alter a monitor's gamma correction through the X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xgamma"
[-display \fIdisplay\fP] [-screen \fIscreen\fP] [-quiet]
[-gamma f.f | [[-rgamma f.f] [-ggamma f.f] [-bgamma f.f]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xgamma
allows X users to query and alter the gamma correction of a monitor via
the X video mode extension (XFree86-VidModeExtension).
.PP
If no value for the gamma correction is given via the
.I -gamma 
or 
.IR -rgamma / -ggamma / -bgamma
options,
.B xgamma
prints the current gamma correction of the display.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-display \fIdisplay\fP"
This argument allows you to specify the server to connect to; see \fIX(__miscmansuffix__)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-screen \fIscreen\fP"
When multiple displays are configured as a single logical display, this option
allows you to select the screen you wish to change.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-quiet"
Silence the normal output of
.B xgamma
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-help"
Print out the `Usage:' command syntax summary.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-gamma f.f"
The gamma correction can either be defined as a single value, or
separately for the red, green and blue components. This argument
specifies the gamma correction as a single value. 
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-rgamma f.f"
This argument specifies the red component of the gamma correction.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-ggamma f.f"
This argument specifies the green component of the gamma correction.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-bgamma f.f"
This argument specifies the blue component of the gamma correction.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get default host and display number.
.SH BUGS
.PP
This client changes the internal values of the gamma correction for the
Xserver. Whether or not these values are respected depends on the video
drivers.
.PP
The gamma values are passed to the Xserver with 3 decimal places of
accuracy.
.SH SEE ALSO
xvidtune(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Kaleb S. Keithley, X Consortium.
.br
David Dawes, David Bateman
