.\" Copyright 1988, 1994, 1998  The Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.TH XWD 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
xwd - dump an image of an X window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xwd"
[-debug] [-help] [-nobdrs] [-out \fIfile\fP] [-xy] [-frame] [-add \fIvalue\fP]
[-root | -id \fIid\fP | -name \fIname\fP ] [-icmap] [-screen] [-silent]
[-display \fIdisplay\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xwd
is an X Window System window dumping utility.
.I Xwd
allows X users to store window images in a specially formatted dump
file.  This file can then be read by various other X utilities for
redisplay, printing, editing, formatting, archiving, image processing, etc.
The target window is selected by clicking the pointer in the desired window.
The keyboard bell is rung once at the beginning of the dump and twice when
the dump is completed.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-display \fIdisplay\fP"
This argument allows you to specify the server to connect to; see \fIX(__miscmansuffix__)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-help"
Print out the `Usage:' command syntax summary.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-nobdrs"
This argument specifies that the window dump should not include the
pixels that compose the X window border.  This is useful in situations
where you may wish to include the window contents in a document 
as an illustration.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-out \fIfile\fP"
This argument allows the user to explicitly specify the output
file on the command line.  The default is to output to standard out.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-xy"
This option applies to color displays only. It selects `XY' format dumping
instead of the default `Z' format.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-add \fIvalue\fP"
This option specifies an signed value to be added to every pixel.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-frame"
This option indicates that the window manager frame should be included when
manually selecting a window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-root"
This option indicates that the root window should be selected for the
window dump, without requiring the user to select a window with the pointer.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-id \fIid\fP"
This option indicates that the window with the specified resource id
should be selected for the window dump, without requiring the user to
select a window with the pointer.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-name \fIname\fP"
This option indicates that the window with the specified WM_NAME property
should be selected for the window dump, without requiring the user to
select a window with the pointer.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-icmap"
Normally the colormap of the chosen window is used to obtain RGB values.
This option forces the first installed colormap of the screen to be used
instead.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-screen"
This option indicates that the GetImage request used to obtain the image
should be done on the root window, rather than directly on the specified
window.  In this way, you can obtain pieces of other windows that overlap
the specified window, and more importantly, you can capture menus or other
popups that are independent windows but appear over the specified window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-silent"
Operate silently, i.e. don't ring any bells before and after dumping
the window.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get default host and display number.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B XWDFile.h
X Window Dump File format definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
xwud(1), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Tony Della Fera, Digital Equipment Corp., MIT Project Athena
.br
William F. Wyatt, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
