.\" Copyright \(co Digital Equipment Corporation, 1996
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this permission
.\" notice appear in all copies.  Digital Equipment Corporation
.\" makes no representations about the suitability for any purpose
.\" of the information in this document.  This documentation is
.\" provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\"
.TH DPMSForceLevel __libmansuffix__ 2005-06-28 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
DPMSForceLevel \- forces a DPMS capable display into the
specified power level
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>
.sp
.BR "Status DPMSForceLevel" " ( Display \fI*display\fP\^, CARD16 \fIlevel\fP\^ );"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.I display
Specifies the connection to the X server
.TP 15
.I level
Specifies the level to force power to
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B DPMSForceLevel
function forces a DPMS capable display into the specified power level.
The \fIlevel\fP must be one of following four states:
.BR DPMSModeOn ,
.BR DPMSModeStandby ,
.BR DPMSModeSuspend ,
or
.BR DPMSModeOff .
Values other than these will result in a
.B BadValue
error.
If DPMS is disabled on the display,
trying to set the power level on the display will result in a
.B BadMatch
protocol error.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
.B TRUE
The
.I DPMSForceLevel
function always returns TRUE.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM BadValue
A level other than
.BR DPMSModeOn ,
.BR DPMSModeStandby ,
.BR DPMSModeSuspend ,
or
.B DPMSModeOff
was specified.
.TP 15
.SM BadMatch
DPMS is disabled on the specified display.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DPMSCapable (__libmansuffix__),
.BR DPMSInfo (__libmansuffix__),
.BR DPMSGetTimeouts (__libmansuffix__),
.BR DPMSSetTimeouts (__libmansuffix__)
