.TH XvQueryExtension __libmansuffix__ __vendorversion__ "libXv Functions"
.SH NAME
XvQueryExtension \- return version and release of extension
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <X11/extensions/Xvlib.h>
.sp
.nf
.BI "int XvQueryExtension(Display *" dpy ", unsigned int *" p_version ","
.BI "                    unsigned int *" p_revision ","
.BI "                    unsigned int *" p_request_base ","
.BI "                    unsigned int *" p_event_base ","
.BI "                    unsigned int *" p_error_base ");"
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\"
.IP \fIdpy\fR 15
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIp_version\fR 15
Pointer to where the current version number of the \fIXv\fP video extension
is written.
.IP \fIp_revision\fR 15
Pointer to where the revision number of the \fIXv\fP video extension
is written.
.IP \fIp_request_base\fR 15
Pointer to where the extension major request number is returned
.IP \fIp_event_base\fR 15
Pointer to where the extension event base is returned
.IP \fIp_error_base\fR 15
Pointer to where the extension error base is returned
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
.PP
.BR XvQueryExtension (__libmansuffix__)
returns the version and release numbers for the Xv video extension
currently loaded on the system.  The extension major request number,
event base, and error base are also returned.
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUES
.IP [Success] 8
Returned if
.BR XvQueryExtension (__libmansuffix__)
completed successfully.
.IP [XvBadExtension] 8
Returned if the Xv video extension is not available for the named display.
.IP [XvBadAlloc] 8
Returned if
.BR XvQueryExtension (__libmansuffix__)
failed to allocate memory to process the request.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Xv (__libmansuffix__)
