.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/drivers/impact/impact.man,v 1.3 2001/11/23 19:50:45 dawes Exp $ 
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH IMPACT __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
impact \- Impact video driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qimpact\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B impact
is an XFree86 driver for the SGI Indigo2's impact video cards.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The
.B impact
driver supports the Impact (MardiGras) cards found in SGI Indigo2 and ImpactSR
(also MardiGras) cards found in SGI Octane.
It supports Impact in 24bit TrueColor mode. There is also a 8bit PseudoColor
mode, but this affects the shadow frame-buffer only (memory usage), hardware
settings are the same.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to XF86Config(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The driver auto-detects all device information necessary to initialize
the card.  However, you have to decide what color mode you want:
.br
.TP
.BI "Option \*qbitplanes\*q \*q" integer \*q
number of bitplanes of the board (8 or 24)
Default: 24.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree86(1), XF86Config(__filemansuffix__), xf86config(1), Xserver(1), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors:
.TP
Impact XFree86 driver:	Peter FÜrst     \fIpf@net.alphadv.de\fP
.TP
ImpactSR kernel driver:	Stanislaw Skowronek     \fIsskowron@et.put.poznan.pl\fP
.TP
Newport XFree86 driver:	Guido GÜnther   \fIagx@sigxcpu.org\fP
.TP

