.\" Copyright 1993, 1998  The Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.TH SHOWRGB 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
showrgb \- display an rgb color-name database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B showrgb
[
.I database
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I showrgb
program reads an rgb color-name database from a __RGB_DB_TYPE__ file
and converts it back to source form, printing the
result to standard output.  The default
database is the one that X was built with, and may be overridden on
the command line.  Specify the database name without
the \fI.txt\fP, \fI.pag\fP or \fI.dir\fP suffix.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.I __RGB_DB__
default database.
