'\" te
'\"! tbl | eqn | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp Jan 14 19:42
.ds Dm 01 colortabl
.ds Xs 4422 4 colortableparameter.gl
.TH GLCOLORTABLEPARAMETER 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glColorTableParameteriv, glColorTableParameterfv
\- set color lookup table parameters

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glColorTableParameteriv\fP(
GLenum \fItarget\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglColorTableParameteriv( 'u
	GLenum \fIpname\fP,
	const GLint \fI*params\fP )
.fi
void \f3glColorTableParameterfv\fP(
GLenum \fItarget\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglColorTableParameterfv( 'u
	GLenum \fIpname\fP,
	const GLfloat \fI*params\fP )
.fi

.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\f2target\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2target\fP
The target color table.
Must be
\%\f3GL_COLOR_TABLE\fP,
\%\f3GL_POST_CONVOLUTION_COLOR_TABLE\fP, or
\%\f3GL_POST_COLOR_MATRIX_COLOR_TABLE\fP.
.TP
\f2pname\fP
The symbolic name of a texture color lookup table parameter.
Must be one of
\%\f3GL_COLOR_TABLE_SCALE\fP or
\%\f3GL_COLOR_TABLE_BIAS\fP.
.TP
\f2params\fP
A pointer to an array where the values of the parameters are stored.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glColorTableParameter\fP is used to specify the scale factors and bias terms applied to
color components when they are loaded into a color table. \f2target\fP
indicates which color table the scale and bias terms apply to; it
must be set to 
\%\f3GL_COLOR_TABLE\fP,
\%\f3GL_POST_CONVOLUTION_COLOR_TABLE\fP, or
\%\f3GL_POST_COLOR_MATRIX_COLOR_TABLE\fP.
.P
\f2pname\fP must be \%\f3GL_COLOR_TABLE_SCALE\fP to set the
scale factors.
In this case, \f2params\fP points to an array of four values, which are
the scale factors for red, green, blue, and alpha, in that order.
.P
\f2pname\fP must be \%\f3GL_COLOR_TABLE_BIAS\fP to set the
bias terms. In this case,
\f2params\fP points to an array of four values, which are the bias
terms for red, green, blue, and alpha, in that order.
.P
The color tables themselves are specified by 
calling \%\f3glColorTable\fP.
.SH NOTES
\%\f3glColorTableParameter\fP is available only if \%\f3GL_ARB_imaging\fP is returned from calling
\%\f3glGetString\fP with an argument of \%\f3GL_EXTENSIONS\fP.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2target\fP or \f2pname\fP is not
an acceptable value.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_OPERATION\fP is generated if \%\f3glColorTableParameter\fP is executed
between the execution of \%\f3glBegin\fP and the corresponding
execution of \%\f3glEnd\fP.
.SH ASSOCIATED GETS
\%\f3glGetColorTableParameter\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3glColorTable(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glPixelTransfer(3G)\fP
