'\" t
'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp Jan 14 18:30
.ds Dm 01 copycolor
.ds Xs 44682 4 copycolorsubtable.gl
.TH GLCOPYCOLORSUBTABLE 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glCopyColorSubTable
\- respecify a portion of a color table

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glCopyColorSubTable\fP(
GLenum \fItarget\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglCopyColorSubTable( 'u
	GLsizei \fIstart\fP,
	GLint \fIx\fP,
	GLint \fIy\fP,
	GLsizei \fIwidth\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\f2target\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2target\fP
Must be one of
\%\f3GL_COLOR_TABLE\fP,
\%\f3GL_POST_CONVOLUTION_COLOR_TABLE\fP, or
\%\f3GL_POST_COLOR_MATRIX_COLOR_TABLE\fP.
.TP
\f2start\fP
The starting index of the portion of the color table to be replaced.
.TP
\f2x\fP, \f2y\fP
The window coordinates of the left corner of the row of pixels to be
copied.
.TP
\f2width\fP
The number of table entries to replace.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glCopyColorSubTable\fP is used to respecify a contiguous portion of a color table previously
defined using \%\f3glColorTable\fP.  The pixels copied from the framebuffer
replace the portion of the existing table from indices \f2start\fP to
$"start"~+~"x"~-~1$, inclusive.  This region may not include any
entries outside the range of the color table, as was originally specified.
It is not an error to specify a subtexture with width of 0, but such a
specification has no effect.
.SH NOTES
\%\f3glCopyColorSubTable\fP is present only if \%\f3GL_ARB_imaging\fP is returned when \%\f3glGetString\fP
is called with an argument of \%\f3GL_EXTENSIONS\fP.
.P
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2target\fP is not a previously defined
color table.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2target\fP is not one of the allowable
values.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if $"start"~+~"x"~>~width$.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_OPERATION\fP is generated if \%\f3glCopyColorSubTable\fP is executed
between the execution of \%\f3glBegin\fP and the corresponding
execution of \%\f3glEnd\fP.
.SH ASSOCIATED GETS
\%\f3glGetColorTable\fP,
\%\f3glGetColorTableParameter\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3glColorSubTable(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glColorTableParameter(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glCopyColorTable(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glCopyColorSubTable(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glGetColorTable(3G)\fP
