'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp Jan 14 18:30
.ds Dm 01 deletelis
.ds Xs 9368 4 deletelists.gl
.TH GLDELETELISTS 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glDeleteLists
\- delete a contiguous group of display lists

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glDeleteLists\fP(
GLuint \fIlist\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglDeleteLists( 'u
	GLsizei \fIrange\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIrange\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2list\fP
Specifies the integer name of the first display list to delete.
.TP
\f2range\fP
Specifies the number of display lists to delete.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glDeleteLists\fP causes a contiguous group of display lists to be deleted.
\f2list\fP is the name of the first display list to be deleted,
and \f2range\fP is the number of display lists to delete.
All display lists \fId\fP with \f2list\fP \(<= \fId\fP \(<= \f2list\fP + \f2range\fP \- 1
are deleted.
.P
All storage locations allocated to the specified display lists are freed,
and the names are available for reuse at a later time.
Names within the range that do not have an associated display list are ignored.
If \f2range\fP is 0, nothing happens.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2range\fP is negative.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_OPERATION\fP is generated if \%\f3glDeleteLists\fP
is executed between the execution of \%\f3glBegin\fP
and the corresponding execution of \%\f3glEnd\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3glCallList(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glCallLists(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glGenLists(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glIsList(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glNewList(3G)\fP
