'\" te
'\"! tbl|eqn | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp Jan 14 18:30
.ds Dm 01 getpointe
.ds Xs 38346 4 getpointerv.gl
.TH GLGETPOINTERV 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glGetPointerv
\- return the address of the specified pointer

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glGetPointerv\fP(
GLenum \fIpname\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglGetPointerv( 'u
	void \fI**params\fP )
.fi

.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIparams\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2pname\fP
Specifies the array or buffer pointer to be returned.
Symbolic constants
\%\f3GL_COLOR_ARRAY_POINTER\fP,
\%\f3GL_EDGE_FLAG_ARRAY_POINTER\fP,
\%\f3GL_FEEDBACK_BUFFER_POINTER\fP,
\%\f3GL_INDEX_ARRAY_POINTER\fP,
\%\f3GL_NORMAL_ARRAY_POINTER\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_COORD_ARRAY_POINTER\fP,
\%\f3GL_SELECTION_BUFFER_POINTER\fP,
and
\%\f3GL_VERTEX_ARRAY_POINTER\fP
are accepted. 
.TP
\f2params\fP
Returns the pointer value specified by \f2pname\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glGetPointerv\fP returns pointer information. \f2pname\fP 
is a symbolic constant indicating the pointer to be returned, and
\f2params\fP is a pointer to a location in which to place the returned data. 
.SH NOTES
\%\f3glGetPointerv\fP is available only if the GL version is 1.1 or greater.
.P
The pointers are all client-side state.
.P
The initial value for each pointer is 0. 
.P
When the \%\f3GL_ARB_multitexture\fP extension is supported, querying the
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_COORD_ARRAY_POINTER\fP returns the value for the active
client texture unit.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2pname\fP is not an accepted value.
.SH SEE ALSO 
\%\f3glArrayElement(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glClientActiveTextureARB(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glColorPointer(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glDrawArrays(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glEdgeFlagPointer(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glFeedbackBuffer(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glIndexPointer(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glInterleavedArrays(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glNormalPointer(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glSelectBuffer(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glTexCoordPointer(3G)\fP,
\%\f3glVertexPointer(3G)\fP
