.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/drivers/i740/i740.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:20:48 dawes Exp $ 
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH I740 __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
i740 \- Intel i740 video driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qi740\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B i740
is an __xservername__ driver for Intel i740 video cards.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The
.B i740
driver supports Intel 740 based cards.  A list of cards reported to work
is provided in the README file with the driver source.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The driver auto-detects all device information necessary to initialize
the card.
.PP
However, if you have problems with auto-detection, you can specify:
.TP
.BI VideoRam " - in kilobytes"
.TP
.BI DacSpeed " - in MHz"
.TP
.BI MemBase " - physical address of the linear framebuffer"
.TP
.BI IOBase "  - physical address of the memory mapped IO registers"
.PP
The following driver
.B options
are supported on all chipsets:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable 2D acceleration. Default: acceleration is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Request a software cursor (hardware is default). Default: off
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSDRAM\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Force the use of SDRAM timings. Default: off
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSGRAM\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Force the use of SGRAM timings. Default: off
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSlowRam\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Force the use of slower ram timings. Default: off
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDac6Bit\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Force the use of a 6 Bit Dac (8 Bit is the default). Default: off
.TP
.BI "Option \*qUsePIO\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Force the use of programmed IO (Memory mapped is the default). Default: off
.PP
Note: the i740 X server should automatically detect whether your card
has SGRAM or SDRAM.  Use the \*qsgram\*q and \*qsdram\*q options if it is
incorrectly detected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(1), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), Xserver(1), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include:  Kevin E Martin and Daryll Strauss of Precision Insight, Inc.
.PP
The XFree86 version of this driver was donated to The XFree86 Project by
Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, TX, USA
.PP
The Xorg version of this driver originally came from XFree86 4.4rc2.

