.\" $XConsortium: showfont.man,v 1.3 94/04/11 14:29:57 gildea Exp $
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/showfont/showfont.man,v 1.3 2000/02/17 14:00:33 dawes Exp $
.TH SHOWFONT __appmansuffix__ __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
showfont \- font dumper for X font server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B showfont
[
.I \-options
\&.\|.\|. ]
.B \-fn
.I pattern
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Showfont
displays data about a font that matches the given \fIpattern\fP.
The information shown includes font information, font properties,
character metrics, and character bitmaps.
.PP
The wildcard character "*" can be used to match any sequence of
characters (including none) in the font name,
and "?" can be used to match any single character.
The "*" and "?" characters must be quoted to prevent them from
being expanded by the shell.
If no pattern is given, "*" is assumed.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.B \-server \fIservername\fP
The X font server to contact.
.I servername 
must be specified in one of the formats defined in the
.I Font Server Names
section of X(__miscmansuffix__).   If not specified, the server name in the
.B FONTSERVER
environment variable is used.
.TP 8
.BI \-fn " name"
The font to display.
.TP 8
.B \-lsb
The bit order of the font should be requested as LSBFirst
(least significant bit first).
.TP 8
.B \-msb
The bit order of the font should be requested as MSBFirst
(most significant bit first).
.TP 8
.B \-LSB
The byte order of the font should be requested as LSBFirst
(least significant byte first).
.TP 8
.B \-MSB
The byte order of the font should be requested as MSBFirst
(most significant byte first).
.TP 8
.B \-ext\fR[\fPents_only\fR]\fP
Only the character extents should be displayed, but not the bitmaps.
.TP 8
.BI \-start " char"
The start of the range of the characters to display
(\fIchar\fP is a number).
.TP 8
.BI \-end " char"
The end of the range of the characters to display
(\fIchar\fP is a number).
.TP 8
.BI \-unit " n"
The scanline unit of the font (8, 16, 32, or 64).
.TP 8
.BI \-pad " n"
The scanpad unit of the font (8, 16, 32, or 64).
.TP 8
.BI \-b\fR[\fPitmap_pad\fR]\fP " n"
The bitmap padding unit of the font (0, 1, or 2,
where 0 is ImageRectMin, 1 is ImageRectMaxWidth and 2 is ImageRectMax).
.TP 8
.B \-noprops
Do not show the font properties.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xfs(__appmansuffix__), fslsfonts(__appmansuffix__), 
fstobdf(__appmansuffix__), xlsfonts(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B FONTSERVER
the default X font server to contact.  The server name must
be specified in one of the formats defined in the
.I Font Server Names
section of X(__miscmansuffix__).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Network Computing Devices, Inc.
.br
See \fIX\fP(__miscmansuffix__) for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc.
